---
slug: '/2024/07/02'
---

# 2024-07-02

## [Why is Chile so long?](https://unchartedterritories.tomaspueyo.com/p/why-is-chile-so-long)

- Chile's unique length is due to the Andes mountains, creating a narrow strip of land between the mountains and the Pacific Ocean.
- The country's geography is shaped by the collision of the Nazca and South American tectonic plates, forming the Andes.
- Chile's borders were historically contested, notably in the War of the Pacific, where it gained resource-rich territories.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40856030)

- Chile's unique geography, with the Andes mountains and the Pacific Ocean as natural boundaries, and historical factors have shaped its long and narrow shape.
- The country spans diverse climates, from the Atacama Desert in the north to cold southern regions, influencing its centralized population in Santiago.
- Chile's diverse geography also affects its dialect of Spanish, giving it unique characteristics compared to other Spanish-speaking regions.

## [Welcome to Ladybird, a truly independent web browser](https://ladybird.org/index.html)

- Ladybird is an independent web browser and engine, initially an HTML viewer for SerenityOS, now supporting Linux, macOS, and other Unix-like systems.
- Unique features include no code from other browsers, a singular focus on being a web browser, and no monetization through ads or user data.
- An Alpha release is planned for Summer 2026, with development funded by sponsorships and donations, and a team of 4 full-time engineers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40854836)

- Ladybird is an independent web browser, and its official website is ladybird.org.
- Discussions and comments about Ladybird have been moved to a specific thread on Hacker News, which is currently featured on the front page.

## [Diff-pdf: tool to visually compare two PDFs](https://github.com/vslavik/diff-pdf)

- The `diff-pdf` tool allows users to visually compare two PDF files, highlighting differences if any.
- The repository is not actively developed, and users are encouraged to submit pull requests for improvements but should not expect support or new features.
- Installation instructions are provided for various operating systems, including Windows, macOS, and several Linux distributions, with detailed steps for compiling from source.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40854319)

- Diff-pdf is a tool designed for visually comparing two PDF files, with users discussing its utility and alternatives like ImageMagick, Delta Walker, and Beyond Compare.
- Users share scripts and configurations for integrating PDF comparison into workflows, including CI (Continuous Integration) pipelines and git, highlighting practical applications in hardware design and textbook comparisons.
- The discussion emphasizes the strengths and limitations of different tools, with preferences split between open-source options and proprietary software based on specific features.

## [Booting Linux Off of Google Drive](https://ersei.net/en/blog/fuse-root)

- A developer successfully booted Linux from Google Drive using FUSE and custom initramfs, showcasing a novel approach to cloud-native computing.
- The process involved using google-drive-ocamlfuse to mount Google Drive and transferring Arch Linux, despite challenges like broken symlinks and slow performance.
- This proof of concept, tested on real hardware, highlights future possibilities such as booting Linux off SSH or a Git repository, emphasizing the potential for innovative cloud-native solutions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40853770)

- A new method has been demonstrated for booting Linux directly from Google Drive, reminiscent of older network booting techniques like Sun Solaris' wanboot.
- This approach leverages modern UEFI (Unified Extensible Firmware Interface) capabilities, which can boot from HTTP, making it possible to load both the initramfs (initial RAM filesystem) and the kernel over the network.
- The discussion highlights the potential for using similar methods for devices like Raspberry Pi, which can already perform network booting using PXE (Preboot Execution Environment) and other protocols.

## [Getting the World Record in Hatetris (2022)](https://hallofdreams.org/posts/hatetris/)

- HATETRIS, a challenging Tetris variant created by Sam Hughes, uses a deterministic algorithm to always give the player the worst possible piece.
- The high score in HATETRIS was pushed to 86 points using Rust optimizations, heuristic beam search, and parameter tuning on AWS.
- Key lessons include the importance of profiling, effective data structures, substantial hardware for machine learning, and combining heuristics for better results.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40851919)

- The discussion centers on achieving a world record in Hatetris, a Tetris variant that always gives the worst possible piece, highlighting the technical challenges and perseverance involved.
- Participants share personal experiences, related projects, and reflections on machine learning, neural networks, and simpler methods like beam search in tackling such complex problems.
- The conversation also touches on the enduring appeal of Tetris variations, legal challenges of creating clones, and the impact of the Tetris Effect on developers.

## [Mako – fast, production-grade web bundler based on Rust](https://makojs.dev/blog/mako-open-sourced)

- Mako, a fast, production-grade front-end build tool based on Rust, is now open source and available on GitHub.
- Developed to address build speed issues, Mako has significantly reduced build times, e.g., from 16s to 3.9s for Ant Design Pro.
- The project, started in March 2023, was internally released at Ant Group in November 2023 and open-sourced by June 2024.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40853845)

- Mako is a fast, production-grade web bundler developed in Rust, designed to enhance the development cycle by efficiently bundling web applications.
- It aims to minimize the tradeoff of slower initial load times often associated with bundling, and plans to support the unplugin system for better compatibility with existing ecosystems.
- The discussion highlights the benefits of bundlers, such as optimal caching and code splitting, and compares Mako to other tools like esbuild and swc, noting the ongoing evolution and competition in the web bundler space.

## [Code reviews do find bugs](https://two-wrongs.com/code-reviews-do-find-bugs.html)

- The 2015 Microsoft research titled "Code Reviews Do Not Find Bugs" claims that only about 15% of code review comments indicate possible defects, but this statistic is misleading.
- Previous research indicates that code reviews and pair programming can find an additional 60% of defects with only a 15% increase in time investment, especially effective on small code chunks.
- The Microsoft paper's thesis is contradicted by evidence showing code reviews' effectiveness in defect detection and learning the codebase, with the real issue being the median review turnaround time of 24 hours.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40851895)

- Code reviews are effective in identifying bugs, tech debt, and code smells, contributing to a more maintainable codebase.
- The discussion highlights the importance of building a supportive code review culture, including practices like using feature flags, breaking down changes into smaller parts, and setting clear expectations.
- The debate includes various perspectives on the efficiency and necessity of code reviews, with some advocating for alternatives like pair programming and automated testing to complement or replace traditional reviews.

## [Ladybird Web Browser becomes a non-profit with $1M from GitHub Founder](https://lunduke.locals.com/post/5812560/ladybird-web-browser-becomes-a-non-profit-with-1-million-from-github-founder)

- The Ladybird Browser Initiative, a non-profit founded by GitHub's Chris Wanstrath and SerenityOS's Andreas Kling, aims to develop a web browser free from corporate and advertising influence.
- With $1 million from Wanstrath and previous funding from Shopify, Ladybird plans to release an alpha version by 2026, focusing on user privacy and open standards.
- The initiative has already hired several full-time developers and made significant progress, despite skepticism, aspiring to offer a truly independent browsing experience.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40856791)

- Ladybird Web Browser has transitioned to a non-profit organization with a $1M donation from GitHub Founder Chris Wanstrath.
- Founder Andreas Kling addressed the project's future, emphasizing optimism despite doubts about developing a new browser without significant funding.
- The team aims to support open web standards, maintain a small team for financial sustainability, and keep the project open-source under a permissive license while exploring memory-safe languages for future development.

## [With fifth busy beaver, researchers approach computation's limits](https://www.quantamagazine.org/amateur-mathematicians-find-fifth-busy-beaver-turing-machine-20240702/)

- Researchers have determined the value of BB(5), representing the complexity of a simple computer program known as the fifth busy beaver, after decades of effort.
- The value was verified using the Coq proof assistant, ensuring mathematical accuracy, and the fifth busy beaver halts after 47,176,870 steps.
- This achievement involved a diverse team, including contributions from both amateur mathematicians and experts, and may be the last busy beaver number determined due to the immense difficulty of BB(6).

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40857041)

- Researchers are approaching the computational limits with the fifth busy beaver problem, which determines the maximum steps a Turing machine with a given number of states can take before halting.
- A significant milestone has been achieved with a proof using Coq, a formal verification tool, marking progress in the field.
- The fifth busy beaver number, BB(5), has been proven to be 47,176,870 steps, though challenges like the intractable six-rule machine related to the Collatz conjecture remain.

## [Meta 3D Gen](https://ai.meta.com/research/publications/meta-3d-gen/)

- Meta 3D Gen (3DGen) is a cutting-edge pipeline that generates 3D assets from text in under a minute, excelling in prompt fidelity and quality.
- It supports physically-based rendering (PBR) and generative retexturing, outperforming industry standards in both speed and visual quality.
- 3DGen integrates Meta 3D AssetGen and Meta 3D TextureGen, representing 3D objects in view, volumetric, and UV spaces.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40857517)

- Meta is developing a new tool, Meta 3D Gen, aimed at improving VR content generation, which is currently labor-intensive.
- Existing services like Meshy, Rodin, and Luma Labs lack the quality needed for detailed VR models, highlighting the need for better solutions.
- The community is hopeful that Meta's solution will address issues such as poor texture quality and inefficient topology in current 3D model generation tools.

## [Adding Mistral Codestral and GPT-4o to Jupyter Notebooks](https://github.com/pretzelai/pretzelai/blob/main/README.md)

- Pretzel is a new fork of Jupyter Lab that integrates AI code generation features, addressing the lack of such extensions in the original Jupyter.
- Key features include inline tab autocomplete, cell-level code generation, and a sidebar chat, all designed to enhance the coding experience with contextual AI assistance.
- Pretzel aims to modernize Jupyter with additional features like real-time collaboration, SQL support, a visual analysis builder, and a VSCode-like interface, making it a comprehensive tool for data scientists.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40857009)

- Pretzel is a free, open-source fork of Jupyter Lab, adding AI code generation features for a more integrated and context-aware experience.
- Key features include inline Tab autocomplete using Mistral Codestral or GPT-4o, cell-level code generation, and a sidebar chat with context from the current cell or selected text.
- Pretzel aims to modernize Jupyter with features like real-time collaboration, SQL support, and a visual analysis builder, distinguishing it from other AI-integrated tools like Noteable, Deepnote, Jupyter-ai, Colab, and CoCalc.

## [Switzerland mandates software source code disclosure for public sector](https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/collection/open-source-observatory-osor/news/new-open-source-law-switzerland)

- Switzerland has enacted the "Federal Law on the Use of Electronic Means for the Fulfilment of Governmental Tasks" (EMBAG), mandating open source software (OSS) in public sector bodies.
- The law, led by Professor Dr. Matthias Stürmer, aims to reduce vendor lock-in, lower taxpayer costs, and enhance services through increased competition and innovation.
- EMBAG promotes transparency and efficiency by requiring public bodies to disclose software source code, unless restricted by third-party rights or security concerns, and allows them to offer additional IT services at cost-covering remuneration.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40852084)

- Switzerland's EMBAG law mandates public sector software source code disclosure, with exceptions for third-party rights or security concerns.
- The law aims to promote open-source software (OSS) and allows public bodies to offer related services at cost-covering rates, though critics worry about potential loopholes and unclear enforcement.
- This initiative could lead to broader OSS adoption in public services, despite challenges in auditing and compliance.

## [When RAND made magic in Santa Monica](https://asteriskmag.com/issues/06/when-rand-made-magic-in-santa-monica)

- RAND Corporation's golden era, spanning two decades, led to major advancements in nuclear strategy, satellites, systems analysis, and early computing.
- Initially a research arm of the Air Force, RAND's success was driven by a talented, independent, and interdisciplinary team, contributing to fields like game theory, AI, and packet switching.
- Over time, RAND's focus shifted due to strained relations with the Air Force and diversification into social policy research, leading to a decline in cutting-edge science and innovation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40849840)

- RAND Corporation was highly influential during WWII and the Cold War, similar to the peak periods of Google or Bell Labs.
- It was a hub for prominent computer scientists and mathematicians, contributing significantly to the field now known as data science, originally termed "Operations Research."
- Despite its historical significance and innovative office designs for collaboration, RAND's modern recognition has diminished, with its legacy including both groundbreaking research and controversial strategies like those during the Vietnam War.

## [A Git story: Not so fun this time](https://blog.brachiosoft.com/en/posts/git/)

- Linus Torvalds created Git out of necessity in 2005 after the free license for BitKeeper, a previously used version control system, was revoked.
- Git's development was inspired by Monotone but aimed to be simpler and faster, quickly gaining contributors and popularity, especially within the Ruby community.
- GitHub, launched in 2008, significantly boosted Git's adoption, leading to its current dominance in the version control market with a 94% share.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40849363)

- The post discusses the history and evolution of version control systems, particularly focusing on Git and its predecessors like BitKeeper and Mercurial.
- It highlights the dominance of Git in the market, with a 94% share according to a 2022 Stack Overflow survey, and debates whether any future system could replace it.
- The conversation includes personal anecdotes and opinions on various version control systems, emphasizing Git's widespread adoption and integration into modern development workflows.

## [Venezuela is first Andean country to lose all of its glaciers](https://www.nbcnews.com/news/latino/-great-sadness-venezuela-first-andean-country-lose-glaciers-rcna153784)

- Venezuela has become the first Andean country to lose all its glaciers, with the Humboldt Glacier in the Sierra Nevada now too small to be classified as a glacier.
- The International Climate and Cryosphere Initiative (ICCI) confirmed this status, noting that Venezuela had six glaciers in the Sierra Nevada, but only the Humboldt Glacier remained by 2011.
- Scientists attribute the glacier's disappearance to climate change and rising global temperatures, with a 2023 study predicting that 83% of the world's glaciers could disappear by 2100 if temperatures continue to rise.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40850313)

- Venezuela is the first Andean country to lose all its glaciers, with the glacier surface shrinking from 2.317 square kilometers in 1952 to just 0.046 square kilometers in 2019.
- This drastic reduction underscores the severe impact of climate change on the environment.
- The loss has prompted discussions on the accuracy of these figures and the broader emotional and environmental implications of glacial retreat.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Why is Chile so long?" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Why%20is%20Chile%20so%20long%3F&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20July%202%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
