---
slug: '/2024/07/03'
---

# 2024-07-03

## [I Received an AI Email](https://timharek.no/blog/i-received-an-ai-email)

- The author received an email from "Raymond" promoting Wisp, a headless CMS, which seemed personalized but was actually AI-generated.
- The email was part of a mass outreach strategy using AI to send nearly 1,000 personalized emails to developers with public blogs on GitHub.
- The author expresses frustration with this AI-driven approach and considers making their GitHub-mirror private to avoid such spam.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40862865)

- An AI-generated email from timharek.no claims success in creating personalized emails using multiple Large Language Models (LLMs) without recipients detecting the AI origin.
- This raises ethical concerns about prioritizing attention and engagement over meaningful progress, with some comparing it to engineers focusing on ad tech rather than significant achievements like the moon landing.
- The discussion underscores the dual nature of AI in marketing, acknowledging both its potential for misuse in spam and its valuable applications.

## [Proton launches its own version of Google Docs](https://www.engadget.com/proton-launches-its-own-version-of-google-docs-100044471.html)

- Proton has introduced Proton Docs, a secure alternative to Google Docs, featuring rich editing and collaboration tools with end-to-end encryption.
- Proton Docs supports advanced formatting, image embedding, and multiple formats, including Microsoft .docx, and allows real-time collaboration with features like comments and cursor tracking.
- This launch is part of Proton's broader expansion, which includes a VPN, encrypted calendar, and password manager, with Proton Docs becoming available to users shortly.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40864914)

- Proton has introduced a collaborative rich text editor, similar to Google Docs, aiming to provide a secure, encrypted alternative.
- Users are divided, with some appreciating the new tool and others concerned about Proton expanding its product range instead of enhancing existing services like email and calendar.
- Discussions include the open-source nature of Proton's offerings and comparisons to other services, with some users wary of consolidating all their data within one company's ecosystem.

## [Why Bridges Don't Sink](https://practical.engineering/blog/2024/7/2/why-bridges-dont-sink)

- Bridges must support loads over clear spaces, requiring strong substructures like piers or abutments to handle concentrated forces.
- Foundation piles, driven deep into the ground, provide stability through end-bearing and skin friction, resisting vertical and horizontal loads.
- Alternatives like drilled shafts and variations such as continuous flight auger piles and helical piles address specific geotechnical challenges, though all methods have limitations and potential failure risks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40861520)

- Bridges remain stable because driven piles are tested for the force required to install them, ensuring they can handle significant loads.
- Wooden piles, when preserved in fully soaked ground, can last for centuries, as evidenced by structures in Venice and New Orleans.
- Challenges such as soil liquefaction, lateral deflection, and unexpected underground conditions can complicate pile driving, but innovative engineering solutions, like floating bridges and historical examples like the Brooklyn Bridge, demonstrate successful overcoming of these issues.

## [I made a search engine for Hacker News](https://hackernews.demo.vectara.com/)

- A Vectara employee has developed an improved search tool for Hacker News (HN) using data from the past six months of stories and comments.
- The creator seeks feedback on the new search tool's effectiveness compared to the current Algolia search used by HN.
- This initiative aims to enhance the search experience for HN users by addressing limitations in the existing search functionality.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40860022)

- A new search engine for Hacker News, built using Vectara, aims to address limitations found in Algolia, covering the last 6 months of stories and comments.
- User feedback highlighted the need for additional features like filters, sorting options, and indexing external links, with mixed opinions on its effectiveness compared to Algolia.
- The project has initiated discussions on enhancing search relevance and user experience within the Hacker News community.

## [Why AI Infrastructure Startups Are Insanely Hard to Build](https://nextword.substack.com/p/why-ai-infrastructure-startups-are)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40862436)

- AI infrastructure startups face significant challenges, including intense competition and high costs, unlike tech giants like Google, Amazon, or Facebook, which evolved into infrastructure providers.
- Venture capital investment in AI infrastructure may be misguided, as the true value lies in companies offering tangible, user-friendly solutions rather than just frameworks.
- Even successful AI companies like OpenAI lack clear products, emphasizing the need for practical innovations that can transform user interactions.

## [All I want for Christmas is a negative leap second](https://qntm.org/leap)

- The blog post discusses the concept of a negative leap second, which has never been implemented but could be necessary due to Earth's faster rotation since 2018.
- Leap seconds are added to account for Earth's irregular rotation, posing challenges to technical systems like Unix time, which struggles with the 23:59:60 timestamp.
- There is ongoing debate about abolishing leap seconds by 2035, which would prevent the implementation of a negative leap second, a prospect the author finds disappointing.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40860831)

- The discussion revolves around the concept of leap seconds, which are added to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) to keep it in sync with Earth's rotation, and the potential introduction of a negative leap second.
- Various opinions are shared on how to handle time adjustments, including abolishing leap seconds, shifting the prime meridian, and updating time zones periodically.
- The debate highlights the complexities and potential issues of timekeeping, such as system synchronization problems, the impact on software, and the historical context of time standards like UTC and TAI (International Atomic Time).

## [Do not taunt happy fun branch predictor (2023)](https://www.mattkeeter.com/blog/2023-01-25-branch/)

- An attempt to optimize an AArch64 assembly inner loop by eliminating a jump resulted in a 4x slowdown due to mismatched `bl` (branch with link) and `ret` (return) pairs, which confused the branch predictor.
- Replacing `ret` with `br x30` (branch to register) resolved the performance issue, and further optimizations, including inlining and using SIMD (Single Instruction, Multiple Data) instructions, achieved significant speedups.
- The final optimized SIMD version ran in 94 ns, approximately 8.8 times faster than the original code, highlighting the importance of avoiding asymmetric branching and leveraging SIMD for performance gains.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40866374)

- The article showcases an optimized code that sums an array of 1024 32-bit floating point numbers in 94 nanoseconds, emphasizing the efficiency due to cache usage.
- It discusses the significance of branch prediction and CPU architecture on performance, as well as the complexities of floating-point arithmetic and ensuring deterministic results.
- References to past work by Raymond Chen and user comments on SIMD (Single Instruction, Multiple Data) instructions, compiler optimizations, and historical CPU behaviors are included.

## [Google's carbon emissions surge nearly 50% due to AI energy demand](https://www.cnbc.com/2024/07/02/googles-carbon-emissions-surge-nearly-50percent-due-to-ai-energy-demand.html)

- Google's carbon emissions increased by nearly 50% compared to 2019, as reported in its 2024 environmental report, challenging its net-zero emissions goal by 2030.
- The rise in emissions is primarily due to higher energy consumption in data centers and supply chain emissions driven by AI advancements, with a 17% increase in data center electricity consumption in 2023.
- Despite these challenges, Google is committed to reducing its environmental impact through efficient infrastructure and emissions reductions, a challenge also faced by other tech companies like Microsoft due to AI demand.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40859993)

- Google's carbon emissions have risen by 13% since last year, primarily due to increased energy consumption in data centers and supply chain emissions.
- There has been a 48% increase in emissions compared to 2019, but this rise is not solely attributable to AI, despite some headlines suggesting otherwise.
- The increase in emissions has been gradual over the years, and the specific impact of AI on this rise remains unclear.

## [The Illustrated Transformer (2018)](https://jalammar.github.io/illustrated-transformer/)

- The post delves into The Transformer model, which uses attention mechanisms to enhance training speed and performance, surpassing the Google Neural Machine Translation model in specific tasks.
- The Transformer model, detailed in the paper "Attention is All You Need," has implementations in TensorFlow (Tensor2Tensor package) and PyTorch (Harvard’s NLP guide), and is recommended by Google Cloud for their Cloud TPU offering.
- The model's architecture includes encoding and decoding components with self-attention and multi-headed attention layers, allowing it to focus on relevant parts of the input and improve translation accuracy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40861148)

- "The Illustrated Transformer" by Jay Alammar is highly praised for its step-by-step explanation of the original transformer architecture.
- For visualizing information flow in decoder-only architectures like GPT-3, bbycroft.net is recommended.
- Users suggest annotated code from Harvard's NLP site for a deeper understanding of transformers, emphasizing the importance of grasping underlying mechanics like attention mechanisms.

## [Brazil data regulator bans Meta from mining data to train AI models](https://apnews.com/article/brazil-tech-meta-privacy-data-93e00b2e0e26f7cc98795dd052aea8e1)

- Brazil's national data protection authority has prohibited Meta from using data from Brazil to train its AI systems, citing potential risks to fundamental rights.
- Meta's updated privacy policy, which allows the use of public posts for AI training, is not compliant with Brazilian regulations, leading to this restriction.
- Meta must comply with this ruling within five days or face daily fines, reflecting similar resistance seen in Europe, while AI training with public data continues in the U.S.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40861057)

- Brazil's data regulator has prohibited Meta from using data to train AI models due to privacy concerns, highlighting ongoing debates on data usage and intellectual property in AI training.
- Some propose a compromise allowing the use of publicly available data if the resulting AI models are made public, though ethical concerns and potential exploitation of user data persist.
- The effectiveness and enforcement of such regulations are under scrutiny, considering the complexities involved in data auditing and jurisdictional challenges.

## [Apple poised to get OpenAI board observer role as part of AI pact](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-07-02/apple-to-get-openai-board-observer-role-as-part-of-ai-agreement)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40860363)

- Apple will gain an observer role on OpenAI's board through a new AI partnership, emphasizing the strategic value of Apple's user base.
- Despite not investing or paying for GPT-4 API calls, Apple ensures stability in its AI partner, while OpenAI accesses a lucrative market.
- This partnership underscores the broader implications for the tech industry and the competitive dynamics among AI companies.

## [Sonar is destroying my job and it's driving me to despair](https://community.sonarsource.com/t/sonar-is-destroying-my-job-and-its-driving-me-to-despair/92438)

- Sonar, a code quality tool, struggles to keep up with new language syntax, causing frustration among developers, especially with Kotlin.
- The default Sonar setup often forces unnecessary code alterations, and customizing rules or allowing exceptions is not user-friendly, particularly under tight deadlines.
- Suggestions for improvement include user roles for rule overrides with admin notifications, group consensus for overrides, and a community thread for discussing rule issues.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40859937)

- Sonar, a code quality and security tool, is causing frustration for some users due to the extensive justification required for exceptions, especially under tight deadlines.
- The main issues stem from organizational and communication problems, not the tool itself, with users citing loss of code coverage credit during refactoring and the need for workarounds.
- While Sonar is beneficial for many, particularly junior and senior engineers, its impact on build times and the rigidity imposed by management are common criticisms.

## [An epigenetic editor to silence genes](https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/science.adq3334)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40859876)

- A new epigenetic editor has been developed to silence specific genes, potentially preventing diseases by targeting single genes.
- Notable genes on George Church's list for knockout include MSTN for lean muscle growth, SCN9A for insensitivity to pain, and PCSK9 for low coronary disease.
- While promising, the complexity of gene therapy is highlighted, with some traits being polygenic and requiring consideration of environmental factors.

## [Tour de France: How professional cycling teams eat and cook on the road](https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/cycling/articles/cxxx568grlwo)

- EF Education-EasyPost head chef Owen Blandy adapted to challenges by showcasing flexibility, a key trait in professional cycling.
- Modern cycling teams invest in custom food trucks, nutrition apps, and data-driven meal plans, with AI being used to tailor diets for each rider.
- Teams follow a five-meal daily plan focusing on high carbohydrates and proteins, with on-bike fuelling including energy bars, gels, and traditional foods like rice cakes.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40860364)

- Professional cycling teams have significantly evolved their approach to nutrition, emphasizing simple, lightly seasoned meals with fresh herbs and citrus.
- Riders use glucose monitoring devices during training to optimize nutrition, though these devices are banned during races, highlighting the importance of personalized nutrition.
- Teams face logistical challenges, such as sourcing enough ice and meticulously managing diets to prevent issues like cramps, while doping remains a concern but is less prevalent due to strict testing and monitoring.

## [Has anyone successfully pivoted from web dev to AI/ML development?](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40866311)

- A senior full-stack web software engineer with 10 years of experience is seeking advice on transitioning to a professional AI role.
- The individual has a strong foundation in programming, math, and computer science but anticipates starting from scratch in some AI areas.
- They have been self-learning AI, machine learning (ML), and deep learning, and are looking for insights from others who have made a similar career pivot.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40866311)

- Many professionals have successfully transitioned from web development to AI/ML roles, often by leveraging existing skills and learning new ones through courses and self-study.
- Key strategies include joining AI teams as software engineers, using existing AI APIs, and gradually upskilling in AI/ML techniques.
- Practical advice includes taking specialized courses like Fast AI, participating in open-source AI projects, and building a strong portfolio to demonstrate capabilities in AI/ML.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="I Received an AI Email" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=I%20Received%20an%20AI%20Email&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20July%203%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
