---
slug: '/2024/07/04'
---

# 2024-07-04

## [The Origins of DS_store (2006)](https://www.arno.org/on-the-origins-of-ds-store)

- .DS_Store files, commonly seen when transferring files from Mac to Windows, stand for "Desktop Services Store," originating from a 1999 rewrite of the Mac OS X Finder.
- The Finder was split into a user interface (Finder_FE) and core functionality (Finder_BE), with plans to make the backend a public API called Desktop Services, though it was never fully released.
- A bug causes excessive creation of .DS_Store files, even without user adjustments, making them a persistent issue for Mac users.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40870357)

- The discussion revolves around the historical context and technical details of the DS_store file and the "fork" concept in Mac file systems, which includes both resource and data components.
- The resource fork in early MacOS stored various application data like icons, menus, and executable code, which posed challenges when transferring files to non-Mac systems.
- The transition from MacOS to MacOS X involved significant changes, including the removal of resource forks, which was met with mixed reactions from the user community.

## [Xcapture-BPF – like Linux top, but with Xray vision](https://0x.tools/)

- 0x.tools is a set of open-source utilities designed for analyzing application performance on Linux, emphasizing simplicity and minimal dependencies.
- Key features include measuring individual thread-level activity and providing eBPF-based tools for system-level and detailed thread activity analysis.
- It is designed for safe use in production environments with very low overhead and does not require OS upgrades or heavy monitoring frameworks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40869877)

- Xcapture-BPF is a new tool likened to Linux's top command but with enhanced capabilities, often referred to as having "Xray vision" for system diagnostics.
- Users have shared experiences of using eBPF (extended Berkeley Packet Filter) and BCC (BPF Compiler Collection) tools to debug complex production issues, highlighting their effectiveness in resolving performance bottlenecks and memory leaks.
- The discussion includes practical examples of troubleshooting, such as resolving high iowait and page cache issues in containerized environments by enabling direct IO and matching sector sizes on loopback devices.

## [AI's $600B Question](https://www.sequoiacap.com/article/ais-600b-question/)

- The AI revenue gap has widened from $200B to $600B, raising questions about the industry's growth expectations.
- Key developments include the easing of the GPU supply shortage, Nvidia's increased data center revenue, and OpenAI's significant revenue growth to $3.4B.
- Challenges such as lack of pricing power, investment risks, and rapid depreciation of older chips persist, but lower GPU costs could benefit startups and innovation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40869461)

- Training large AI models like GPT-4 requires significant computational resources, with estimates suggesting 8,000 H100 GPUs running for 90 days.
- Meta's substantial GPU investments could allow them to train multiple GPT-4 scale models annually, potentially commoditizing core AI models and impacting profit margins for AI companies.
- The real value in AI may shift towards proprietary data for training, raising potential legal issues and emphasizing the importance of data ownership.

## [Beating NumPy matrix multiplication in 150 lines of C](https://salykova.github.io/matmul-cpu)

- A high-performance matrix multiplication implementation in C, following the BLIS design, outperforms NumPy (OpenBLAS) on an AMD Ryzen 7700, achieving over 1 TFLOPS.
- The code is simple, portable, and scalable, using only 3 lines of OpenMP directives for parallelization, and targets Intel Core and AMD Zen CPUs with FMA3 and AVX instructions.
- The implementation demonstrates that efficient matrix multiplication can be achieved in C without deep assembly or Fortran code, with performance comparable to established BLAS libraries when fine-tuned for specific hardware.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40870345)

- A blog post demonstrates outperforming NumPy matrix multiplication using 150 lines of C code, focusing on performance enhancements.
- Key improvements include algorithm selection, minimizing kernel round trips, vectorization, cache efficiency, and hardware-specific optimizations.
- Discussions in the comments address the fairness of comparing C code to NumPy, suggesting comparisons with other BLAS (Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms) libraries and emphasizing the need for thorough benchmarking and hyperparameter tuning for specific CPUs.

## [The joy of reading books you don't understand](https://reactormag.com/the-joy-of-reading-books-you-dont-entirely-understand/)

- The article emphasizes the joy and value of reading books that are not entirely understood, suggesting that it's okay to appreciate a book without fully grasping it.
- The author, Molly Templeton, shares personal experiences with complex books like Neal Stephenson’s _Baroque Cycle_ and recent titles such as Alaya Dawn Johnson’s _The Library of Broken Worlds_ and Molly McGhee’s _Jonathan Abernathy You Are Kind_.
- Templeton argues that embracing uncertainty in reading can be liberating and enrich the reading experience, encouraging readers to explore challenging narratives.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40870280)

- The post discusses the value of reading books that challenge and provoke deep thought, referencing Kafka's belief that impactful books should "bite and sting" rather than simply entertain.
- It highlights different perspectives on reading difficult or complex books, with some readers advocating for immersion without note-taking to enhance understanding and enjoyment.
- The conversation includes personal anecdotes and recommendations for books that have left a lasting impression, emphasizing the joy of discovering new insights through re-reading and engaging with challenging material.

## [Twilio confirms data breach after hackers leak 33M Authy user phone numbers](https://www.securityweek.com/twilio-confirms-data-breach-after-hackers-leak-33m-authy-user-phone-numbers/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40874341)

- Twilio has confirmed a data breach that exposed the phone numbers of 33 million Authy users, leading to increased spam calls and concerns over the reliability of traditional phone networks.
- Users are considering alternative communication methods such as FaceTime and Zoom, while also emphasizing the critical role of phone calls in essential services like healthcare and social services.
- The breach highlights the need for stronger data protection, better enforcement of anti-spam measures, and recommendations for alternative two-factor authentication (2FA) apps like Aegis, Bitwarden, and Yubikey.

## [The saddest "Just Ship It" story ever (2020)](https://www.kitze.io/posts/saddest-just-ship-it-story-ever)

- The author shares a personal journey of developing an app, starting in 2018, but delaying its release due to continuous feature additions and learning new technologies like React Native.
- Despite abandoning the project after two years, the author later discovered a similar app that succeeded despite being imperfect, leading to mixed emotions.
- In 2022, the author finally released a productivity app combining various features like Todos, Habits, Planner, and Goals, and invites readers to join the community on Benji - The Life OS.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40872182)

- The discussion revolves around the "just ship it" mentality in software development, emphasizing that rushing to meet deadlines can compromise the quality of the software and lead to developer burnout.
- There is a debate on whether developers should prioritize company profitability or focus on creating high-quality software, with some arguing that developers are not adequately compensated for extraordinary efforts unless they have a significant stake in the company.
- The conversation highlights differing perspectives on job satisfaction, compensation, and the balance between professional integrity and company demands, reflecting broader industry concerns about work-life balance and recognition.

## [Jeffrey Snover and the Making of PowerShell](https://corecursive.com/building-powershell-with-jeffrey-snover/)

- Jeffrey Snover, the architect behind PowerShell, shares his journey of creating a command tool that revolutionized Windows system administration, initially facing resistance from a company favoring graphical interfaces.
- Key challenges included navigating company restructures, cultural pushback, and building a dedicated team, with significant influence from Bill Gates' push for .NET.
- PowerShell's development, guided by the Monad Manifesto, transformed Windows Server administration and enabled Microsoft's move to the cloud, showcasing the impact of persistence and vision in driving technological change.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40874013)

- Jeffrey Snover, the creator of PowerShell, faced significant opposition and was demoted at Microsoft for pursuing its development.
- PowerShell was designed to aid server administration on Windows by calling various APIs, but it faced internal conflicts and some features were lost in newer versions.
- Despite its object-oriented approach and .NET integration, PowerShell is seen as verbose and challenging compared to other scripting languages like Python, limiting its adoption outside the Windows ecosystem.

## [Sans-IO: The secret to effective Rust for network services](https://www.firezone.dev/blog/sans-io)

- Firezone uses Rust and a sans-IO design for its core connectivity library, connlib, to manage network connections and WireGuard tunnels, offering fast tests, deep customization, and high assurance.
- The sans-IO design separates policy from implementation using abstractions like `Transmit`, allowing pure state machines to handle network protocols without direct IO, making the code more flexible and easier to test.
- While sans-IO requires custom event loops and state machines, it provides significant benefits such as easy composition, flexible APIs, and improved error handling, despite not being widely adopted in the Rust community yet.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40872020)

- The post discusses the concept of Sans-IO in Rust, which separates input/output (IO) operations from the main logic, making code more testable and composable.
- This approach is particularly beneficial for packet-oriented use cases like QUIC, WebRTC, and IP, where state management can become complex.
- The discussion highlights that while this method isn't new, it offers significant advantages in Rust by simplifying testing and avoiding the pitfalls of traditional async/await patterns.

## [Building a data compression utility in Haskell using Huffman codes](https://lazamar.github.io/haskell-data-compression-with-huffman-codes/)

- The post outlines the creation of a data compression program in Haskell using Huffman coding, which handles arbitrary binary files with constant memory for encoding and decoding.
- It explains Huffman codes, prefix-free codes, and the process of constructing a binary tree for efficient encoding, followed by the implementation of encoding and decoding functions.
- The post also covers handling binary files, serializing/deserializing data, and potential improvements like multithreading and faster code creation, showcasing a practical and efficient data compression utility in Haskell.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40872332)

- A discussion on building a data compression utility in Haskell using Huffman codes, highlighting the efficiency of array-based, in-place algorithms for large data sets.
- References to significant works, including Moffat and Katajainen's 1995 paper and the JPEG standard ITU T.81 (1992), which describe array-based Huffman coding.
- Insights into Haskell's performance, with comparisons to other languages like C, C++, and Rust, and the trade-offs between simplicity of implementation and code clarity versus raw performance.

## [Voice Isolator: Strip background noise for film, podcast, interview production](https://elevenlabs.io/voice-isolator)

- The AI voice generator now supports 29 languages, expanding its accessibility and usability for a global audience.
- It offers thousands of voice options, providing users with a wide range of choices for different applications and preferences.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40869421)

- Elevenlabs' Voice Isolator tool aims to strip background noise for film, podcast, and interview production, but its pricing model based on "characters" is confusing many users.
- Users are discussing various alternatives for speech-to-text (STT) and text-to-speech (TTS) solutions, including open-source options like Whisper and commercial services like Deepgram Nova 2.
- There is a notable interest in local and open-source solutions for audio cleanup and transcription, as many find current commercial offerings either too expensive or not effective enough.

## [Vision Pro owners, are you still using it?](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40872102)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40872102)

- Vision Pro users have mixed experiences, with some praising its media and work capabilities, while others criticize its high cost and limited functionality.
- Key features appreciated include screen size, passthrough, eyesight features, and improved Bluetooth peripheral support, but issues like vision discomfort and limited software integration are noted.
- The device's high price point ($3500) and limited release (450k units) have led to a small market, with many users waiting for future revisions or opting for cheaper alternatives like the Quest 3.

## [Diffusion Forcing: Next-Token Prediction Meets Full-Sequence Diffusion](https://boyuan.space/diffusion-forcing/)

- Diffusion Forcing is a new training paradigm that combines next-token prediction and full-sequence diffusion models, offering flexible generation and sequence-level guidance.
- It achieves significant performance improvements in applications like video prediction, stabilizing infinite rollouts, diffusion planning, and long-horizon imitation learning.
- This method allows for stable and consistent video predictions, longer rollouts without sliding windows, and robust handling of non-Markovian tasks with long-term memory requirements.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40871783)

- The paper combines sequence masking, essential for Large Language Models (LLMs), with diffusion models by tracking an 'uncertainty' level per pixel, treated as 'noise' for the diffusion model.
- This method is beneficial for tasks like maze solving and controlling a robot arm, as it allows for firming up parts of an image earlier.
- The approach models uncertainty in planning and search, enhancing agents' ability to react and generalize, but the paper lacks implementation details and codebase access.

## [Finding near-duplicates with Jaccard similarity and MinHash](https://blog.nelhage.com/post/fuzzy-dedup/)

- Jaccard similarity and MinHash are used to identify approximately similar documents in large text collections, such as those used in GPT-3 dataset preparation.
- MinHash approximates Jaccard similarity by hashing document features and using the minimum hash value as a signature, allowing efficient comparison of large corpora.
- This method is scalable and can be combined with other techniques like HyperLogLog, making it suitable for large-scale text processing applications.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40872438)

- The post discusses using Jaccard similarity and MinHash for finding near-duplicate data, highlighting their application in various fields such as medical image segmentation and database deduplication.
- Several tools and libraries are mentioned for deduplication tasks, including datasketch, rensa, Splink, and gaoya, with insights into their performance and use cases.
- The Fellegi Sunter model is noted for its effectiveness in deduplicating people by assigning weights to fuzzy matches and mismatches, improving accuracy in large datasets.

## [Region-specific Machines pricing](https://community.fly.io/t/fresh-produce-region-specific-machines-pricing/20690)

- Starting July 1st, region-specific pricing for Machines, including additional RAM, will be introduced due to varying infrastructure costs by region.
- The price adjustment will be phased in over four months, with final prices set by November; initial invoices will show region-specific line items without price changes.
- A bug fix for Machines Shared CPU 1x usage not covered by Free Machines Allowance credit has been implemented, and credits are being reissued.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40873001)

- Fly.io's region-specific pricing has ignited discussions, with some users finding it expensive compared to alternatives like Hetzner, especially for high availability.
- Fly.io defends its pricing by highlighting the unsustainability of flat global rates due to high operational costs in certain regions, such as Brazil.
- Despite the removal of the hobby plan and some reliability concerns, many users appreciate Fly.io's features like dynamic request routing and "ops-less" deployments, which they believe justify the higher costs.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="The Origins of DS_store (2006)" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=The%20Origins%20of%20DS_store%20(2006)&subheading=Thursday%2C%20July%204%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
