---
slug: '/2024/07/07'
---

# 2024-07-07

## [YouTube embeds are bananas heavy and it’s fixable](https://frontendmasters.com/blog/youtube-embeds-are-bananas-heavy-and-its-fixable/)

- YouTube embeds are resource-heavy, with each embed around 1.3MB and 32 requests, leading to slow load times and high data transfer.
- A Web Component like "lite-youtube-embed" by Paul Irish can reduce the size to about 100k, sharing resources and improving performance significantly.
- Implementing this solution involves linking the JavaScript, using the component in HTML, and loading the script asynchronously for better performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40897205)

- A community forum platform has replaced YouTube embeds with proxied thumbnails, which load only when clicked, reducing the need to download large JavaScript files and preventing Google tracking.
- Similar solutions have been implemented for YouTube, SoundCloud, and Reddit embeds to enhance functionality and minimize bloat.
- There is debate over whether lighter embeds might reduce engagement due to slower video start times, but many believe that improving overall page load time is more important for user experience and site performance.

## [Malloc broke Serenity's JPGLoader, or: how to win the lottery (2021)](https://sin-ack.github.io/posts/jpg-loader-bork/)

- A bug in SerenityOS's JPG image decoding caused incorrect color display due to an RGB vs. BGR confusion.
- The issue was traced back to a commit implementing `malloc_good_size()`, which altered memory allocation and affected data structures like `HashTable` and `Vector` used in `JPGLoader`.
- The fix involved ensuring deterministic iteration over components in `JPGLoader`, highlighting how simple changes can uncover significant underlying issues.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40896102)

- Some hash table implementations introduce randomness to prevent reliance on element order and enhance security, while modern implementations often guarantee iteration in insertion order.
- JavaScript and Python have standardized insertion order in their hash table implementations, with Python adopting this in version 3.7.
- Rust offers different hash table options (`HashMap`, `BTreeMap`, `IndexMap`), and Perl introduced random seeds for hash tables post version 5.18.

## [BeaconDB – An Alternative to Mozilla Location Services](https://beacondb.net/)

- beaconDB is a public domain wireless geolocation database covering 177,176 networks, 4,126 beacons, 6,106 towers across 30 countries, with ethically sourced, opt-in data collection.
- The database is privacy-friendly, obfuscating information to protect transmitters and contributors, and requires physical proximity to update data, making it abuse-resistant.
- Developers can use the endpoint `https://beacondb.net/v1/geolocate`, compatible with Ichnaea's request format, but it's not suitable for high-traffic applications; source code is available on Codeberg.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40895672)

- BeaconDB is presented as an alternative to Mozilla Location Services (MLS), focusing on ethically sourced, opt-in data collection.
- Unlike Apple and Google, BeaconDB does not publish cleartext MAC addresses, instead using hashed or aggregated data to enhance privacy.
- BeaconDB is the only non-big tech database for location services, aiming to provide an open-source solution and discussing potential collaborations.

## [A reawakening of systems programming meetups](https://notes.eatonphil.com/2024-07-07-systems-meetups.html)

- There has been a resurgence in high-quality systems programming meetups in cities like Munich, Berlin, San Francisco, New York City, and Bengaluru in 2024.
- The NYC Systems Coffee Club, started in December 2023, focuses on engineering challenges and has grown rapidly, inspiring similar meetups globally.
- Key advice for organizing meetups includes securing a host venue, focusing on technical content, finding speakers through industry connections, and collaborating with other organizers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40897506)

- Systems programming meetups are experiencing a resurgence, highlighting the community's renewed interest in low-level programming and system architecture.
- Organizing such meetups faces challenges, including finding stable venues, which often require strong internal support or municipal backing to secure consistent locations.
- The quality and focus of meetup content are crucial, with some groups struggling to balance between genuine technical discussions and self-promotional presentations by speakers.

## [Where are the good resources for learning audio processing?](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40892812)

- The user is seeking resources to program a harmonizer similar to the one created by MIT's Ben Bloomberg for Jacob Collier.
- They need accessible information on pitch shifting and format shifting that maintains natural sound quality.
- The user has extensive programming experience but lacks knowledge in audio processing, indicating a need for beginner-friendly yet comprehensive resources.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40892812)

- A user is seeking resources to program a harmonizer similar to Jacob Collier's, created by MIT's Ben Bloomberg, focusing on pitch and format shifting.
- Recommended resources include open course materials from CCRMA at Stanford, industry-standard libraries like Elastique by Zplane, and books such as "DAFX - Digital Audio Effects" by Udo Zölzer.
- Additional suggestions include tutorials, YouTube channels, and community forums like Officehours.global for networking and further learning.

## [A free minimalist daily habit tracker](https://rdht.vercel.app/)

- A new habit tracker app has been developed by an individual dissatisfied with existing options, featuring streak tracking, offline usability, streak freezes, a visual consistency map, and pause functionality.
- The app is built using React for the frontend, Dexie cloud for storage and syncing, and hosted on Vercel.
- The developer has made the app available for public use, showcasing a personal project turned into a community resource.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40893866)

- A new free minimalist daily habit tracker has been created to address gaps in existing apps, featuring streak tracking, offline use, streak freezes, a visual consistency map, and a pause function.
- Built with React and Dexie cloud, and hosted on Vercel, the app has received feedback for improvements, particularly for iPhone users, including suggestions for bad habits, design tweaks, and bug fixes.
- Users appreciate the clean design and offline functionality, with suggestions for a collapsed view and better mobile compatibility; there are no monetization plans yet.

## [Why Italy Fell Out of Love with Cilantro](https://www.atlasobscura.com/articles/what-are-italian-herbs)

- Coriander, once a staple in ancient Roman cuisine, has nearly disappeared from modern Italian cooking, especially its leaves.
- The decline began post-Rome, influenced by Germanic tribes and the preference for exotic spices like cinnamon and cardamom.
- Despite its historical presence, coriander is now viewed as a foreign ingredient in Italy, unlike other herbs such as basil.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40895441)

- Italy's dislike for cilantro dates back to 1544 when botanist Pietro Andrea Mattioli described its leaves as smelling like bed bugs.
- The aversion may be genetically influenced, as some people perceive cilantro as tasting like soap due to a specific gene.
- The decline in cilantro's popularity in Italy is also linked to changing culinary trends and migration patterns, illustrating the complex interplay between genetics, culture, and personal preference in shaping food tastes.

## ["Out of Band" network management is not trivial](https://utcc.utoronto.ca/~cks/space/blog/sysadmin/OutOfBandManagementNotTrivial)

- The 2022 Rogers Internet and phone outage, affecting over 12 million Canadians, highlighted the importance and complexity of "Out of Band" (OOB) network management.
- OOB management requires dedicated hardware and infrastructure separate from the main network, ensuring redundancy and security but adding significant cost and complexity.
- Smaller networks might find it more practical to focus on robust, redundant in-band management rather than maintaining a separate OOB network.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40895167)

- "Out of Band" (OOB) network management is essential for maintaining network reliability, especially in modern digital systems that are prone to misconfigurations and failures.
- The Rogers outage underscored the critical need for robust OOB management, highlighting the importance of better planning and risk assessment to prevent core network failures.
- Effective OOB management involves using dedicated, redundant systems, often leveraging different providers or technologies such as LTE or satellite to ensure reliability.

## [Execute JavaScript in a WebAssembly QuickJS sandbox](https://github.com/sebastianwessel/quickjs)

- This TypeScript package allows secure execution of JavaScript code within a WebAssembly sandbox using the QuickJS engine, ideal for running untrusted code safely.
- Key features include an isolated environment, virtual file system, custom node modules, HTTP(S) fetch client, chai-based test runner, and efficient performance.
- The package is versatile and easy to integrate with TypeScript projects, offering a user-friendly API for code execution and management.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40896873)

- This TypeScript package enables secure execution of JavaScript code within a WebAssembly sandbox using the QuickJS engine, ensuring isolation of untrusted code.
- Key features include a virtual file system, custom node modules, a fetch client, a test runner, and a user-friendly API, supporting environments like NodeJS, Deno, and Cloudflare Workers.
- A security warning notes that enabling `fetch` can expose the host's cookies to untrusted code, potentially compromising the sandbox's safety.

## [From the Transistor to the Web Browser, a rough outline for a 12 week course](https://github.com/geohot/fromthetransistor)

- The course covers a comprehensive journey from understanding transistors to developing a web browser, providing a hands-on approach to learning hardware and software integration.
- Key projects include building an ARM7 CPU, a C compiler, a UNIX-like OS, and a text-based web browser, using languages like Verilog, Python, Haskell, and C.
- The curriculum emphasizes practical skills such as emulation with Verilator, FPGA board design, and implementing essential system components like an MMU, Ethernet controller, and TCP stack.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40895935)

- A 12-week course titled "From the Transistor to the Web Browser" by geohot on GitHub has generated discussion due to its ambitious scope but minimal updates since 2016.
- Users debate its feasibility, suggesting alternative learning tools like "Turing Complete" and "Shenzen I/O," and argue it may be too dense for beginners, better suited for experienced programmers.
- Critics question the course's practicality and the author's intentions, viewing it as overly ambitious and lacking substance compared to comprehensive Electrical and Computer Engineering degrees.

## [Mongo but on Postgres and with strong consistency benefits](https://github.com/event-driven-io/Pongo)

- Pongo Pongo is a tool that allows using MongoDB-like operations on PostgreSQL, leveraging strong consistency benefits.
- It translates MongoDB API calls to native PostgreSQL queries, utilizing JSONB for efficient read/write operations and complex queries.
- Pongo is not a traditional ORM (Object-Relational Mapping) but focuses on document data handling, offering flexibility and performance, though it is not fully MongoDB compliant.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40897518)

- Pongo is a new project that provides a MongoDB-like API on top of PostgreSQL, leveraging JSONB columns for strong consistency benefits.
- The project aims to combine the ease of use of MongoDB with the robust consistency and reliability of PostgreSQL, translating MongoDB syntax to native PostgreSQL queries.
- This development has sparked interest due to its potential to offer a familiar MongoDB experience while utilizing PostgreSQL's advanced features, appealing to developers looking for strong consistency in their database operations.

## [Scientists re-emerge after a year in Mars simulation project](https://www.dw.com/en/scientists-re-emerge-after-a-year-in-mars-simulation-project/a-69585838)

- Four scientists completed a year-long Mars simulation in Houston's Mars Dune Alpha habitat, a 3D-printed structure designed to replicate Martian conditions.
- The mission, part of NASA's Crew Health and Performance Exploration Analog (CHAPEA), aims to gather insights for future Mars missions and long-term space exploration, including the Artemis program.
- The team conducted "Marswalks" and dealt with stressors like isolation and communication delays, with additional CHAPEA missions planned for 2025 and 2027.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40896110)

- Scientists have concluded a year-long Mars simulation, focusing on human endurance in isolated, high-stress environments.
- The project underscores that psychological and social dynamics are more challenging to manage than nutritional needs.
- Discussions include technical and ethical considerations, potential high mortality rates, and the necessity for extensive preparation and smaller initial missions for Mars colonization.

## ["AI", students, and epistemic crisis](https://miniver.blogspot.com/2024/07/ai-students-and-epistemic-crisis.html)

- A blog post from July 6, 2024, discusses a student's use of ChatGPT as a search engine, resulting in the student believing false information.
- The author highlights the difficulty of combating AI-generated misinformation, as each student may receive unique incorrect facts, complicating the correction process.
- The post reflects on the broader issue of misinformation's impact on education and was removed due to harassment.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40896212)

- Students today depend significantly on AI and the internet for information, contrasting with previous generations who conducted manual research in libraries.
- Educators are concerned that this reliance may hinder students' ability to critically assess information, resulting in essays that often lack depth.
- While AI tools are useful, they can also generate false information, sparking a debate on integrating these tools into education while fostering critical thinking skills.

## [OpenAI was hacked year-old breach wasn't reported to the public](https://www.tomshardware.com/tech-industry/artificial-intelligence/openai-was-hacked-revealing-internal-secrets-and-raising-national-security-concerns-year-old-breach-wasnt-reported-to-the-public)

- Hackers breached OpenAI's internal messaging systems early last year, exposing sensitive information but not accessing key AI systems, raising security and national security concerns.
- OpenAI disclosed the incident internally in April 2023, stating no customer data was stolen and the hacker likely had no government ties; however, the breach has led to heightened fears about foreign adversaries, particularly China, advancing their AI technologies.
- OpenAI has since improved its security measures, established a Safety and Security Committee, and the incident has prompted discussions on federal and state regulations to control AI technology release.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40894082)

- OpenAI experienced an unreported hack last year, leading to user concerns about transparency and security practices.
- The breach involved access to internal messaging systems but did not compromise key AI technologies.
- Users discussed difficulties in reporting bugs and frustrations with OpenAI's standard security reporting practices.

## [What causes migraines? Study of 'brain blackout' offers clues](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-024-02222-x)

- A study in mice, published in Science on 4 July 2024, reveals new insights into migraine causes, linking brief brain 'blackouts' to changes in cerebrospinal fluid that activate pain receptors in the skull.
- The research suggests migraines might serve as a protective mechanism signaling the need for rest and identifies a previously unknown gap in the protective layers around the trigeminal ganglion.
- This discovery could lead to the development of new treatments for migraines by targeting the newly identified mechanisms.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40893749)

- A study suggests that cortical spreading depression (CSD), a "brain blackout," might be involved in migraines.
- People reported various triggers and treatments, including dietary changes, medications like Rizatriptan, and lifestyle adjustments such as improved sleep and hydration.
- The discussion underscores the complexity of migraines, with different triggers and treatments being effective for different individuals.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="YouTube embeds are bananas heavy and it’s fixable" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=YouTube%20embeds%20are%20bananas%20heavy%20and%20it%E2%80%99s%20fixable&subheading=Sunday%2C%20July%207%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
