---
slug: '/2024/07/10'
---

# 2024-07-10

## [AMD to buy Silo AI for $665M](https://www.ft.com/content/7b8d2057-2687-45b3-bae4-1488a75ac5b2)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40926648)

- AMD is acquiring Silo AI for $665 million to bolster its software capabilities in AI and machine learning, areas where NVIDIA's CUDA has been dominant.
- Silo AI's expertise with large language models (LLMs) on AMD hardware is expected to enhance AMD's software stack and competitive position.
- The acquisition has generated discussions about its potential impact on the European startup ecosystem and AMD's future in the AI market.

## [Europe's new heavy-lift rocket, Ariane 6, made its inaugural flight](https://www.esa.int/Enabling_Support/Space_Transportation/Ariane/Europe_s_new_Ariane_6_rocket_powers_into_space)

- Europe's new heavy-lift rocket, Ariane 6, successfully launched from French Guiana on 9 July 2024, marking its inaugural flight, VA262.
- The launch demonstrated Ariane 6's capabilities, including placing satellites into orbit and showcasing its new launch pad built by CNES.
- Ariane 6, built by ArianeGroup, signifies a new era for the European space industry, with its upper stage demonstrating engine restart and safe deorbiting capabilities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40924915)

- Europe's new heavy-lift rocket, Ariane 6, has successfully completed its inaugural flight, aiming to provide independent access to space for European countries until the 2030s.
- Despite being nearly twice as expensive as SpaceX's Falcon 9, both rockets have the capability to lift 22 tons to low Earth orbit.
- Future plans for Ariane Next/SALTO aim to achieve similar efficiency to Falcon 9 with a reusable design, though critics note that SpaceX benefits from taxpayer support and military/NASA facilities, complicating direct cost comparisons.

## [Zed on Linux Is Here](https://zed.dev/linux)

- Zed, a software product, is now available for installation on Linux systems.
- Users can install Zed by running a provided shell script via the command: `curl https://zed.dev/install.sh`.
- This release is significant as it expands Zed's availability to Linux users, potentially increasing its user base and community engagement.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40928893)

- Zed, a new text editor for Linux, has initiated comparisons with popular editors like VSCode, Neovim, and Sublime Text.
- Users praise Zed for its speed, native app feel, collaborative features, and UI design but note issues with Typescript integration and version control.
- Concerns about Zed's installation method and potential future monetization have been raised, leading to a divided community, with many users monitoring its development while continuing to use their current tools.

## [How CD pregaps gained their hidden track superpowers](https://tedium.co/2024/07/06/compact-disc-pregap-history/)

- The article delves into the compatibility issues and complications associated with the audio CD hidden track phenomenon known as the before-album pregap.
- It explores how this pregap, a hidden track before the first track of an album, can cause playback issues on various CD formats and players.
- The discussion is relevant for those interested in the technical aspects of CDs, including CD, CD-i, CD-ROM, and enhanced CDs, and adheres to the Red Book standard for audio CDs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40920122)

- CD pregaps have been creatively used for hidden tracks and live recordings, often containing crowd noise between songs, only audible when playing the album continuously.
- CDs can technically support up to 9,801 audio segments through 99 tracks and 99 index markers, but few CD players support index navigation.
- While some users rip CDs preserving pregaps for gapless playback, the desire for a unified album format with metadata persists, as current solutions like FLAC/cue lack widespread hardware support.

## [RouteLLM: A framework for serving and evaluating LLM routers](https://github.com/lm-sys/RouteLLM)

- RouteLLM is a framework designed for serving and evaluating Large Language Model (LLM) routers, offering a cost-effective alternative to OpenAI's client by routing simpler queries to cheaper models.
- Key features include pre-trained routers that can reduce costs by up to 85% while maintaining 95% of GPT-4's performance, and an extendable framework for adding new routers and comparing performance across benchmarks.
- The framework supports various models and providers, requires an OPENAI_API_KEY for generating embeddings, and allows for threshold calibration to balance cost and quality.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40922739)

- RouteLLM is a new framework designed to serve and evaluate LLM (Large Language Model) routers, with a focus on cost optimization.
- It offers trained routers that can reduce costs by up to 85%, addressing challenges like rate limits, cost per token, and model selection, making it valuable for budget-conscious companies.
- The framework allows users to fallback to different models and manage rate limits automatically, making it a crucial tool for building robust and cost-effective LLM pipelines.

## [ML Code Exercises](https://www.deep-ml.com/)

- The platform Deep-ML offers a variety of code challenges across different categories such as linear algebra, machine learning, and deep learning, catering to various difficulty levels from easy to hard.
- Challenges include practical implementations like Linear Regression, K-Means Clustering, and Principal Component Analysis (PCA), providing hands-on experience for learners.
- This resource is particularly valuable for students and entry-level engineers looking to strengthen their understanding and skills in fundamental and advanced machine learning concepts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40925896)

- A new website, deep-ml.com, offers machine learning (ML) code exercises inspired by Andrej Karpathy’s videos, intended as a learning tool rather than interview preparation.
- The platform has sparked debate about the relevance of such exercises for ML job interviews, with some arguing they focus too much on basic computations rather than practical skills.
- The creator, mchab, emphasizes that the site is for educational purposes, not to mimic Leetcode-style interview questions, and is open to feedback and improvements via a dedicated Discord channel.

## [Girls in Tech closes its doors after 17 years](https://venturebeat.com/games/girls-in-tech-closes-its-doors-after-17-years/)

- GamesBeat is collaborating with Lil Snack to provide customized games, aiming to boost audience engagement.
- The Girls in Tech nonprofit is closing after 17 years, as announced by founder Adriana Gascoigne, who emphasized the organization's significant role in empowering women in tech.
- Founded in Silicon Valley and later moved to Nashville, Girls in Tech impacted over 250,000 individuals across 35 chapters in 30 countries through programs like mentorship, hackathons, and conferences.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40925471)

- Girls in Tech, a non-profit organization, is shutting down after 17 years due to insufficient funding, sparking discussions on gender diversity in the tech industry.
- The closure has led to reflections on the organization's impact and debates on the effectiveness of diversity initiatives and their broader implications for women in tech.
- This event underscores the persistent challenges in funding and sustaining non-profits focused on diversity and inclusion.

## [SimSig: Railway Signalling Simulations](https://www.simsig.co.uk/)

- SimSig is a railway signalling simulation software that replicates the operation of British IECCs (Integrated Electronic Control Centres) on home PCs.
- It offers a variety of simulations from the UK, US, and Australia, with prices ranging from free to under £10, and supports multiplayer and timetable creation.
- SimSig runs on Windows 8.1 and 10, and can be used on Linux and Mac through emulators like Wine and Crossover.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40925025)

- SimSig is a popular railway signaling simulator, with discussions comparing it to other simulators like NXSYS, Rail Route, and Factorio.
- The conversation highlights the complexity and realism of different railway signaling systems, including historical and modern advancements.
- There is a debate on the safety and efficiency of close train spacing, with references to various signaling technologies and real-world examples like the Clapham Junction rail crash.

## [Awsviz.dev simplifying AWS IAM policies](https://www.awsviz.dev/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40922740)

- Awsviz.dev simplifies AWS IAM policies by visualizing them, addressing the common issue of IAM's complexity.
- Users share experiences of IAM's steep learning curve, with some resorting to insecure practices like using root credentials, highlighting the need for better tools.
- The tool converts IAM policies into graphs, making them easier to understand, and its GitHub repository is available for those concerned about security.

## [I made a Note-Taking app for people who keep texting themselves](https://strflow.app)

- Strflow, initially a macOS note-taking app, is now available for iOS, featuring a chronological timeline UI.
- Key features include a tag system, rich editor, global shortcuts, share extension, and encrypted iCloud backup with end-to-end encryption.
- Strflow is natively implemented in Swift, using AppKit for macOS, UIKit for iOS, and partially SwiftUI, with a custom-built sync engine using CloudKit.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40925906)

- Strflow is a new note-taking app designed for users who often text themselves notes, offering a dedicated alternative to chat apps like Slack or iMessage.
- Initially launched for macOS, Strflow is now available on iOS, featuring a tag system, rich editor, global shortcuts, share extension, and encrypted iCloud backup.
- The app is built using Swift, with AppKit for macOS and UIKit for iOS, and the developer is open to questions and feedback.

## [Vision language models are blind](https://vlmsareblind.github.io/)

- Large language models with vision capabilities (VLMs) like GPT-4o and Gemini-1.5 Pro excel in many image-text tasks but struggle with simple visual tasks that are easy for humans.
- These tasks include identifying overlapping circles, intersecting lines, circled letters, counting shapes in logos, nested squares, grid rows and columns, and following paths in subway maps.
- The limitations in basic visual tasks suggest that the vision capabilities of current VLMs are still underdeveloped, highlighting areas for future improvement.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40926734)

- A recent paper claims that vision language models (VLMs) like GPT-4 and Sonnet 3.5 struggle with basic visual tasks, suggesting they are "blind."
- Critics argue that while VLMs may fail at specific tasks, they excel in others, especially when trained on relevant data, and caution against hyperbolic and misleading titles.
- The discussion underscores the complexity of evaluating VLMs and the importance of understanding their limitations and strengths.

## [Multi-agent chatbot murder mystery – AI Alibis (free, in-browser)](https://ai-murder-mystery.onrender.com/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40921989)

- A new open-source game called "AI Alibis" allows players to solve a murder mystery by interrogating AI-generated suspects, each hiding secrets about the case.
- The game uses a sophisticated prompt refinement system to ensure suspects do not accidentally confess, involving a "violation bot" and a "refinement bot" to check and adjust responses.
- The project is hosted for free using the Anthropic API and is available on GitHub, but it has faced performance issues due to high traffic from Hacker News.

## [Weird things I learned while writing an x86 emulator](https://www.timdbg.com/posts/useless-x86-trivia/)

- The post explores unique and lesser-known aspects of writing an x86 and amd64 emulator for Time Travel Debugging (TTD), focusing on the transition from assembly to C++ for better maintainability.
- Key insights include the peculiarities of x86 encoding, such as multiple ways to encode the same instruction, and the quirks of CPU flags and shift instructions.
- Segment overrides in 32-bit and 64-bit code, particularly for thread local storage, highlight the continued relevance of segments in modern CPU operations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40927438)

- Writing an x86 emulator reveals numerous quirks and complexities, such as the undefined behavior of BSF/BSR instructions on zero input and the varying behavior of TZCNT/LZCNT on different CPUs.
- The encoding of instructions in x86, including the handling of REX/VEX/EVEX prefixes and the new APX prefix, adds layers of complexity, making the architecture challenging to emulate accurately.
- The post highlights the historical artifacts and irregularities in the x86 architecture, contrasting it with more consistent architectures like RISC-V and ARMv8, which are easier to work with.

## [Plausible Community Edition](https://plausible.io/blog/community-edition)

- Plausible Analytics has launched the self-hosted, AGPL-licensed Plausible Community Edition (CE) to better protect their open-source project from corporate misuse.
- Key changes include renaming the self-hosted release to Plausible CE, excluding some features for managed hosting, and requiring external contributors to sign a Contributor License Agreement (CLA).
- These changes aim to ensure the sustainability of Plausible Analytics while maintaining the AGPL license and protecting their brand through registered trademarks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40925266)

- Plausible Community Edition is under scrutiny regarding its licensing, open-source status, and the separation of proprietary and open-source code.
- Users are concerned that the community edition may lack features compared to the managed version, potentially pushing them towards paid plans.
- The debate underscores the tension between maintaining open-source principles and ensuring business sustainability, with some viewing Plausible's actions as necessary and others as a betrayal.

## [How to validate a market with development boards and SD cards](https://flyingcarcomputer.com/posts/how-to-validate-market-with-development-board/)

- The FCC mandates that electronic devices must complete testing and approval before being marketed in the US, including selling, leasing, advertising, and importing.
- The ambiguity around whether offering devices on crowdfunding sites constitutes marketing poses a risk, especially for startups facing high testing costs and unresponsive labs.
- A cost-effective workaround involves using widely available chips and pre-flashing SD cards with the OS and software, shifting liability to the manufacturer and allowing market validation with minimal spend.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40920246)

- Understanding the regulatory landscape and compliance testing is crucial for validating a market with development boards and SD cards.
- Certification, such as from the FCC, is essential to avoid legal issues and ensure product safety, particularly for devices emitting RF noise.
- Testing costs range from $3000 to $5000, and pre-testing is recommended to identify issues early.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="AMD to buy Silo AI for $665M" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=AMD%20to%20buy%20Silo%20AI%20for%20%24665M&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20July%2010%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
