---
slug: '/2024/07/14'
---

# 2024-07-14

## [Jelly Star – The Smallest Android 13 Smartphone](https://www.unihertz.com/en-de/products/jelly-star)

- Unihertz has released the Jelly Star, touted as the world's smallest Android 13 smartphone, priced at $209.99 USD (discounted from $229.99 USD).
- Key features include a 3-inch display, transparent back design with LED light, Octa-Core MediaTek Helio G99 processor, 8GB RAM, 256GB storage, and a 48 MP rear camera.
- The device supports global LTE, NFC, dual nano SIM cards, and includes additional functionalities like fingerprint unlock, USB OTG, FM radio, and GPS.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40956979)

- Unihertz has released the Jelly Star, touted as the smallest Android 13 smartphone, sparking interest due to its unique size and features.
- Users have mixed reactions, praising its compact design and swype-typing functionality but criticizing the brand for minimal software updates and poor customer service.
- Discussions highlight the importance of software updates, compatibility with custom ROMs like LineageOS, and the need for replaceable batteries in smartphones.

## [After initially rejecting it, Apple has approved the first PC emulator for iOS](https://www.theverge.com/2024/7/13/24198015/apple-utm-se-pc-os-emulator-for-ios)

- Apple has approved UTM SE, the first PC emulator for iOS, which allows users to run classic software and old-school games for Windows, Mac OS 9, and Linux on iPhones.
- UTM SE, built from QEMU, supports VGA and terminal modes and emulates x86, PPC, and RISC-V architectures, but does not include any operating systems.
- The app's approval, following initial rejection, was aided by the AltStore team and another developer's QEMU TCTI implementation, and it is now available for free on iOS, iPadOS, and visionOS.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40958465)

- Apple has approved the first PC emulator for iOS, named UTM, after initially rejecting it, sparking excitement among users.
- The approval is attributed to EU regulations, highlighting ongoing discussions about consumer rights, repairability, and ownership in modern electronics.
- UTM is JIT-less (Just-In-Time compilation-less) due to Apple's restrictions, resulting in slower performance but still enabling the running of various operating systems, including 64-bit Linux, on non-jailbroken iPhones.

## [No reasonable expectation of privacy in one's Google location data](https://fourthamendment.com/?p=58338)

- The Fourth Circuit Court ruled that there is no reasonable expectation of privacy (REP) in one's Google location data, as users willingly share this data with Google.
- The court decision highlights that geofencing, a method used by law enforcement to gather location data, does not constitute a search under the Fourth Amendment.
- This ruling is significant as it addresses the increasing use of geofence warrants by law enforcement since 2016 and Google's procedures to protect user privacy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40958458)

- Google is changing its handling of location data by pushing it to devices and purging it from servers, meaning it will no longer respond to geofence warrants from law enforcement.
- This change has sparked mixed reactions, with some users appreciating the increased privacy and others concerned about losing access to their timeline data.
- Encrypted backups for location data are available but disabled by default, requiring manual enabling, which some users find unintuitive.

## [Nevada’s public employee pension fund invests passively and beats peers (2016)](https://www.wsj.com/articles/what-does-nevadas-35-billion-fund-manager-do-all-day-nothing-1476887420)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40957656)

- Nevada’s public employee pension fund uses a passive investment strategy and outperforms its peers, sparking debate on the necessity of active fund management.
- Proponents of active management argue it can offer diversified returns, while supporters of passive investing find it more reliable and safer.
- The discussion highlights the challenges of consistently beating the market and the role of fund managers in balancing risk and returns.

## [Trump Shot at Pennsylvania Rally](https://apnews.com/article/trump-vp-vance-rubio-7c7ba6b99b5f38d2d840ed95b2fdc3e5)

- Donald Trump was rushed off stage at a rally in Butler, Pennsylvania, after apparent gunshots; he was shot in the ear but is reportedly fine.
- The shooter, Thomas Matthew Crooks, was killed by Secret Service agents; one attendee died, and two were critically injured.
- This incident, the most serious assassination attempt since Ronald Reagan in 1981, has heightened concerns about political violence ahead of the presidential election.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40957564)

- Former President Trump was shot at a Pennsylvania rally, igniting debates on democracy, political violence, and gun rights.
- Discussions include the historical context of political violence in America, the Second Amendment, and social media's role in political polarization.
- The shooter, reportedly a Republican, has raised concerns about escalating violence and its potential impact on the upcoming election.

## [Talos: Secure, immutable, and minimal Linux OS for running Kubernetes](https://www.talos.dev)

- Talos Linux is a secure, immutable, and minimal Linux OS specifically designed for Kubernetes, supporting cloud platforms, bare metal, and virtualization platforms, with system management done via an API.
- It emphasizes security, predictability, and evolvability by being minimal, hardened, and immutable, with all API access secured by mutual TLS (mTLS) authentication.
- Talos Linux is production-ready, supports large Kubernetes clusters, and can be launched on a laptop inside Docker in just 3 minutes, making it highly accessible and efficient for developers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40956546)

- Talos is a secure, immutable, and minimal Linux OS specifically designed for running Kubernetes, simplifying system maintenance through API-based configuration, upgrades, and debugging.
- Talos requires a full disk for installation, which can be challenging for servers with limited storage, but users have explored solutions like PXE, virtualization, and external storage.
- Talos is praised for its ease of setup and maintenance, supports Raspberry Pi 4b, and offers tutorials on its YouTube channel.

## [Gunshots reportedly fired at Donald Trump rally; walked off-stage](https://news.sky.com/story/shots-fired-at-donald-trump-rally-as-former-president-rushed-off-stage-13177651)

- Former President Donald Trump was injured in an assassination attempt at a rally in Butler, Pennsylvania, sustaining a bullet wound to his ear.
- The attack resulted in the deaths of a spectator and the gunman, Thomas Matthew Crooks, and critically injured two others.
- The incident has raised concerns about political violence in the US, prompting a review of security measures for the upcoming Republican National Convention.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40957344)

- Gunshots were fired at a Donald Trump rally, leading to his immediate removal from the stage by the Secret Service.
- The incident has sparked discussions on political violence, gun control, and the challenges faced by the Secret Service.
- Speculation about the shooter's motives and political affiliations, as well as the broader implications for American society, is ongoing.

## [Nvidia Warp: Python framework for high-performance simulation and graphics code](https://nvidia.github.io/warp/)

- NVIDIA Warp is a Python framework designed for high-performance simulation and graphics, compiling Python functions to efficient kernel code for CPU or GPU.
- It supports spatial computing with primitives for physics simulation, perception, robotics, and geometry processing, and integrates with machine-learning frameworks like PyTorch and JAX.
- Warp extensions are available in Omniverse Kit or USD Composer, providing OmniGraph nodes and sample scenes for enhanced simulation capabilities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40958305)

- Nvidia has released Warp, a Python framework designed for high-performance simulation and graphics code, sparking interest in the tech community.
- Discussions highlight concerns about the restrictive licensing terms, particularly around developing competing products and the implications for open-source usage.
- Comparisons are being made with other frameworks like Taichi and Triton, with some users noting Warp's ability to output intermediate GPU CUDA or CPU C++ files for compilation.

## [I built a Jeopardy game maker with buzzer support](https://buzzinga.io/)

- Buzzinga.io, a game inspired by Jeopardy!, was launched in December 2023 and has since attracted over 2000 users.
- Key features include built-in buzzer support, automatic scorekeeping, user-friendly host controls, high customization, and support for various media types (text, image, audio, video).
- No sign-up is required to play, making it accessible for casual users, while game creation requires an account.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40960508)

- Inspired by watching Jeopardy!, a developer created Buzzinga, a Jeopardy game maker with buzzer support, initially for personal use and later launched as Buzzinga.io in December 2023.
- Buzzinga.io features built-in buzzer support, automatic scorekeeping, user-friendly host controls, and multiple clue types (text, image, audio, video), with no sign-up required to play, only to create games.
- The project has garnered interest from the tech community, with discussions on potential open-sourcing, feature requests, and legal concerns regarding the use of the Jeopardy name and styling.

## [Building and scaling Notion's data lake](https://www.notion.so/de-de/blog/building-and-scaling-notions-data-lake)

- Notion's data has grown 10x in three years, necessitating the development and scaling of their data lake to manage product and analytics demands, including Notion AI features.
- Key challenges included managing 480 Fivetran connectors, slow and costly data ingestion to Snowflake, and complex data transformation logic exceeding standard SQL capabilities.
- Implementing a data lake using S3 for storage, Spark for processing, and Kafka Debezium CDC connectors with Apache Hudi for ingestion resulted in significant cost savings and reduced data ingestion time, enabling the successful rollout of Notion AI features.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40959787)

- Notion transitioned to a data lake to reduce high costs associated with Fivetran and Snowflake, saving over a million dollars in 2022.
- The move involved shifting large Postgres datasets and utilizing tools like Iceberg and Delta Lake to support analytics and AI features.
- Users raised concerns about data privacy and potential data mining, but it is likely that Notion uses the data internally for analysis and AI training.

## [Git-PR: patch requests over SSH](https://pr.pico.sh/)

- The Pico project is undergoing several updates, including a refactor of patch parsing code and a rewrite of support for managed web services leveraging SSH.
- New features and improvements are being introduced, such as the use of `entry.Size` for object store tools and middleware for sending and receiving files via SSH.
- These updates aim to enhance collaboration tools and streamline file transfer processes using familiar protocols like rsync, scp, and sftp.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40959526)

- Git-PR introduces a new workflow for submitting patch requests over SSH, aiming to simplify the process compared to traditional email workflows and centralized services like GitHub.
- The SSH-based workflow reduces the need for setting up mailing lists and configuring email clients, but it requires maintaining an SSH server and managing SSH identities.
- This tool targets self-hosted environments and hacker enthusiasts, offering a lightweight alternative to more complex systems like Gerrit or GitHub, and aims to integrate seamlessly with existing tools like git and SSH.

## [Writing a BIOS bootloader for 64-bit mode from scratch](https://thasso.xyz/2024/07/13/setting-up-an-x86-cpu.html)

- The post provides a detailed guide on setting up an x86_64 CPU from a 16-bit real mode to a 64-bit long mode, starting from the BIOS boot sector.
- It includes assembly code examples and Makefile configurations, assuming familiarity with x86 assembly and nasm syntax.
- The guide covers the transition through 32-bit protected mode and setting up the Global Descriptor Table (GDT) and page tables for 64-bit long mode.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40959742)

- A user shared their experience of writing a BIOS bootloader for a 64-bit mode from scratch, fitting it into the boot sector without needing a second stage.
- The discussion highlights various technical aspects, including minimizing filesystem code complexity, the use of different registers, and the challenges of backward compatibility in CPU modes.
- The conversation also touches on the differences between BIOS and UEFI boot procedures, with some users noting the complexities and dependencies introduced by UEFI.

## [A Motherfucking Website](https://motherfuckingwebsite.com/)

- The post emphasizes the importance of creating lightweight, fast, and responsive websites that fit all screens and are consistent across browsers.
- It advocates for accessibility, legibility, and clarity, using HTML5 tags to ensure functionality on all devices, including older browsers like IE6.
- The central argument is that over-designing with unnecessary animations and heavy files detracts from a website's primary goal: clear and efficient communication.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40956192)

- The website "A Motherfucking Website" (motherfuckingwebsite.com) has sparked a debate on Hacker News about the overuse of JavaScript and complex designs in modern web development.
- Critics argue that many websites are unnecessarily bloated, making it difficult to access information quickly and efficiently.
- The site is praised for its minimalist approach, emphasizing that websites are inherently functional and accessible until developers complicate them with excessive code and design elements.

## [Fitting an elephant with four non-zero parameters](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.07909)

- The paper titled "Fitting an Elephant with Four non-Zero Parameters" addresses a famous quote by Enrico Fermi, which humorously critiques the flexibility of mathematical models.
- The authors, Dian Jin and Junze Yuan, aim to define and solve the problem of fitting an elephant using four parameters, a challenge that has intrigued mathematicians since 1953.
- This submission to arXiv under the History and Overview category provides a structured approach to a previously ill-defined problem, potentially advancing mathematical modeling techniques.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40961163)

- The article humorously critiques over-parameterized models, referencing a paper on fitting an elephant with four parameters, and highlights the irony in modern AI and ML using numerous parameters.
- It contrasts this with physics, where fewer parameters are preferred, emphasizing the importance of capturing true physical significance rather than just fitting data.
- The discussion underscores the value of balancing formal and accessible academic writing and the role of humor in scientific publications.

## [Firing Myself](https://backintyme.substack.com/p/firing-myself)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40956215)

- A junior developer accidentally committed AWS keys to a public repository, leading to their compromise, which was addressed by the CTO through a constructive discussion and process improvement.
- Commenters stressed the importance of pre-commit hooks and proper safeguards to prevent such errors.
- The discussion highlighted the value of addressing systemic issues and supportive leadership in turning mistakes into learning opportunities.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Jelly Star – The Smallest Android 13 Smartphone" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Jelly%20Star%20%E2%80%93%20The%20Smallest%20Android%2013%20Smartphone&subheading=Sunday%2C%20July%2014%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
