---
slug: '/2024/07/16'
---

# 2024-07-16

## [Run CUDA, unmodified, on AMD GPUs](https://docs.scale-lang.com/)

- SCALE by Spectral Compute is a GPGPU (General-Purpose computing on Graphics Processing Units) programming toolkit enabling native compilation of CUDA applications for AMD GPUs without modifying the original CUDA code or build system.
- SCALE acts as a drop-in replacement for NVIDIA's nvcc compiler, allowing seamless integration with existing build tools and scripts, and supports various open-source CUDA projects like NVIDIA Thrust and Blender Cycles.
- Currently, SCALE supports AMD GPUs such as gfx1030 (Navi 21, RDNA 2.0) and gfx1100 (Navi 31, RDNA 3.0), with ongoing development for additional GPU architectures.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40970560)

- The discussion centers on the feasibility and implications of running CUDA (Compute Unified Device Architecture) on AMD GPUs, highlighting technical and legal challenges.
- Some argue that supporting translation layers for CUDA on AMD GPUs is impractical and suggest focusing on open-source projects like PyTorch instead.
- HIP (Heterogeneous-Compute Interface for Portability) is mentioned as a potential low-effort solution for porting CUDA code to AMD GPUs, though it is not entirely zero-effort.

## [For advertising, Firefox now collects user data by default](https://www.heise.de/en/news/For-advertising-Firefox-now-collects-user-data-by-default-9801345.html)

- Firefox's latest version now collects user data by default, introducing Privacy-Preserving Attribution (PPA) for anonymized ad measurement, which has sparked controversy.
- Critics argue that this default data collection undermines user trust and suspect Mozilla's intention to boost revenue, challenging Firefox's reputation for privacy.
- The PPA uses an aggregation server to anonymize data, but concerns persist about data leaving users' computers and potential future access by advertisers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40974112)

- Firefox has started collecting user data by default for advertising purposes, which can be disabled in the settings under Privacy & Security.
- Users have reported that the setting to disable this feature is not easily searchable and does not sync across devices.
- Mozilla's CTO claims the feature balances privacy and ad measurement, but user skepticism and criticism persist.

## [Exo: Run your own AI cluster at home with everyday devices](https://github.com/exo-explore/exo)

- Exo allows users to create an AI cluster at home using everyday devices like iPhones, iPads, Androids, Macs, and Linux systems, eliminating the need for expensive NVIDIA GPUs.
- Key features include wide model support (e.g., LLaMA), dynamic model partitioning, automatic device discovery, and a ChatGPT-compatible API, all using a peer-to-peer connection without a master-worker architecture.
- Exo is experimental software, so users should expect early bugs and are encouraged to report issues and contribute to the community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40973339)

- Exo allows users to run their own AI clusters at home using everyday devices, providing an alternative to cloud-based AI compute.
- The project supports various hardware, including old phones and laptops, and aims to offer privacy, customization, and offline access for AI models.
- Discussions highlight the trade-offs between local and cloud AI models, including cost, performance, and privacy, with some users preferring local setups for personal or sensitive data.

## [Horizon – Private alternative to Imgur](https://horizon.pics)

- James, a 17-year-old full-stack engineer from Canada, has developed Horizon Pics, a file hosting service focused on security, privacy, and user needs, without ads or data selling.
- Recently, Horizon Pics underwent a rebrand and launched a new desktop app called Alpine, which auto-uploads screen captures and clipboard content, offering features like auto-deletion and end-to-end encryption.
- The app is built with modern technologies such as Tauri, TypeScript, SvelteKit, Sass, and Rust, and Horizon Pics offers both free and paid plans with varying storage limits.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40972122)

- Horizon Pics, developed by a 17-year-old full-stack engineer from Canada, is a private alternative to Imgur, offering ad-free and secure file hosting.
- The service recently launched a rebrand, including a new desktop app called Alpine, which auto-uploads screen captures and clipboards with privacy options.
- Horizon Pics provides both a free plan with limited storage and a paid plan with higher limits, aiming to attract users seeking privacy-focused file hosting solutions.

## [The Mafia of Pharma Pricing](https://www.thebignewsletter.com/p/inside-the-mafia-of-pharma-pricing)

- The FTC's new report exposes how a few healthcare conglomerates, likened to a mafia, control 4% of all U.S. money through pharmaceutical pricing.
- Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs) are identified as key players inflating drug prices by controlling pricing and redirecting funds to themselves.
- The FTC's actions and potential legislative changes aim to address the monopolization of pharmaceutical pricing by PBMs, which has led to significantly inflated costs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40971553)

- The post discusses unethical practices in the pharmaceutical industry, particularly involving Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs) and drug companies.
- Key issues include the sale of prescription data, legal "rebates" that function as kickbacks, and the influence of financial incentives on medical diagnoses and prescriptions.
- The conversation highlights the need for transparency and regulation to address market distortions and protect patients from unethical behavior and inflated drug prices.

## [The Engineer’s Guide to Deep Learning: Understanding the Transformer Model](https://www.interdb.jp/dl/)

- The document, "The Engineer’s Guide To Deep Learning," provides a comprehensive guide to understanding the Transformer model, a significant AI breakthrough introduced in 2017.
- It includes fundamental concepts of neural networks, RNNs (Recurrent Neural Networks), NLP (Natural Language Processing), and attention mechanisms, with working Python code examples and references for further exploration.
- Released on May 21, 2024, it is free for educational and noncommercial use, authored by Hironobu SUZUKI, a seasoned software programmer and AI enthusiast.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40974193)

- The post discusses various resources for understanding the Transformer model in deep learning, highlighting free and paid options.
- Recommendations include "The Annotated Transformer," "Transformers from Scratch," Andrej Karpathy's series, and 3Blue1Brown's visual introductions.
- There is a debate on the relevance of Keras, with some users noting its decline in academia and industry favoring JAX, while others mention Keras 3's support for multiple backends.

## [Codestral Mamba](https://mistral.ai/news/codestral-mamba/)

- On July 16, 2024, Mistral AI introduced Codestral Mamba, a new architecture developed with Albert Gu and Tri Dao, offering linear time inference and the ability to model infinite-length sequences.
- Codestral Mamba is efficient for code productivity, performs comparably to state-of-the-art (SOTA) transformer models, and supports in-context retrieval up to 256k tokens.
- The model is deployable via various SDKs, with raw weights available on HuggingFace, and is free under the Apache 2.0 license, while Codestral 22B has commercial and community licenses.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40977103)

- Codestral Mamba, a new model from Mistral.ai, has been released and is generating interest due to its unique architecture and capabilities.
- The model supports 256k context tokens and offers linear inference time, making it competitive with transformer-based models.
- There is ongoing discussion about integrating Codestral Mamba with development environments like VS Code and IntelliJ, but current support is limited.

## [Peter Buxtun, whistleblower who exposed Tuskegee syphilis study, has died](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/article/2024/jul/15/peter-buxtun-tuskegee-whistleblower-dies)

- Peter Buxtun, the whistleblower who exposed the unethical Tuskegee syphilis study, has passed away at 86.
- Buxtun's revelation led to the termination of the study in 1972, congressional hearings, and a $10 million settlement for the victims.
- His comparison of the study to Nazi medical experiments prompted new government research regulations, highlighting his significant impact on ethical standards in medical research.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40973422)

- Peter Buxtun, the whistleblower who exposed the unethical Tuskegee syphilis study, has passed away.
- Buxtun's concerns about the study, which withheld treatment from African American men with syphilis, were ignored for six years before gaining attention.
- The Tuskegee study has had lasting impacts, including contributing to vaccine hesitancy in African American communities and highlighting systemic racism in medical research.

## [The Delusion of the Polygraph](https://lithub.com/what-the-all-american-delusion-of-the-polygraph-says-about-our-relationship-to-fact-and-fiction/)

- Justin St. Germain explores the blurred lines between memory, memoir, and myth through his experience with a polygraph test during a job application with Customs and Border Protection.
- He argues that the polygraph, often seen as a lie detector, actually creates rather than detects truth, drawing parallels to memoir writing.
- Germain discusses the polygraph's controversial history, its use in coercing confessions, and its symbolic role in asserting state power, highlighting its flaws and the American obsession with a simple, detectable truth.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40972437)

- The author recounts taking a polygraph test at nineteen due to theft suspicions at work, despite being innocent.
- Polygraphs are criticized for their use in coercing confessions rather than accurately detecting lies, often leading to stress and unreliable results.
- Despite their questionable accuracy, polygraphs continue to be used in job screenings and criminal investigations as a tool for intimidation.

## [A Review of Linux on Surface Pro 4](https://www.binwang.me/2024-07-12-A-Review-of-Linux-on-Surface-Pro-4.html)

- The author experimented with installing Linux on a Surface Pro 4, originally purchased in 2016, to explore its viability for various use cases like internet browsing, media consumption, and sketching.
- Installation of Linux was straightforward using EndeavourOS and Fedora Workstation 40, but tablet functionality was problematic, with issues like ghost touch, poor palm rejection, and significant battery drain during sleep.
- Due to these issues, the author reverted to Windows 10, finding it more functional for their needs, but may reconsider Linux after Windows 10's end of life next year.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40973123)

- A review of running Linux on a Surface Pro 4 has sparked significant discussion, highlighting various user experiences with Linux on different hardware.
- Many users compare their experiences with Linux on other devices, such as Dell XPS and ThinkPads, noting issues like sleep, power management, and hardware integration.
- The conversation underscores the challenges of achieving seamless hardware-software integration on Linux, similar to macOS on MacBooks, due to device driver development complexities.

## [How do jewellers capture every last particle of gold dust? (2017)](https://www.ft.com/content/0512638c-b7c2-11e6-961e-a1acd97f622d)

- Gary Williams of Mastermelt manages the burning of commercial waste to reclaim precious metals, with jewellers collecting every particle of gold dust from their workshops for processing.
- The process involves heating materials to 2,000C to recover metals like gold and platinum, with advanced techniques and technology aiding in capturing more waste.
- Trust between jewellers and refiners is crucial, and the industry continually refines methods to maximize the recovery of precious metals.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40972134)

- Jewellers employ meticulous methods to capture every particle of gold dust, including upgrading windows, on-site laundry, and tearing up floors.
- These practices are reminiscent of historical efforts, such as the Manhattan Project's silver reclamation from floors and equipment.
- Jewellers in cities like Sydney and New York recover gold from workshop floors and sidewalks, emphasizing the industry's resourcefulness and minimal material loss.

## [The Open Collaboration Tools](https://www.typefox.io/blog/open-collaboration-tools-announcement/)

- Open Collaboration Tools is an open-source project aimed at enhancing remote teamwork through live-sharing of Integrated Development Environment (IDE) contents.
- Key features include extensions for VS Code and Eclipse Theia, a server application for authentication and collaboration, and an open protocol with end-to-end encryption.
- The project addresses gaps in existing tools by offering no vendor lock-in, absolute extensibility, flexible deployment options, and open-source licensing under the MIT License.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40970621)

- Open Collaboration Tools by TypeFox is gaining attention, especially among users of openvscode-server and Eclipse Theia, due to its potential for improved remote collaboration.
- TypeFox's tools, including Sprotty, Langium, and Theia, are being highlighted, with speculation that Theia might replace openvscode-server if it fulfills its promises.
- The discussion includes interest in the scalability and readiness of a YJS provider for collaborative editing, and comparisons to other collaboration methods like screen sharing and VS Live Share.

## [OpenAI illegally barred staff from airing safety risks, whistleblowers say](https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2024/07/13/openai-safety-risks-whistleblower-sec/)

- OpenAI whistleblowers have filed a complaint with the SEC, alleging the company illegally restricted employees from warning regulators about the risks of its technology.
- The complaint claims OpenAI's employment agreements violated federal laws by requiring staff to waive whistleblower compensation rights and seek company consent before disclosing information to authorities.
- OpenAI has stated it supports protected disclosures and has revised its policies, while the SEC has acknowledged the complaint but hasn't confirmed an investigation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40974154)

- Whistleblowers claim OpenAI restricted staff from discussing safety risks, raising concerns about the company's use of non-disclosure agreements (NDAs).
- Critics argue that OpenAI's emphasis on "safety risks" may be more about marketing and regulatory strategies than genuine threats, paralleling tactics used by other tech companies.
- The debate extends to the ethical implications of AI development, including the use of biased models and the broader impact of AI regulation.

## [KUtrace: Low-overhead Linux kernel tracing facility](https://github.com/dicksites/KUtrace)

- KUtrace is a low-overhead Linux kernel tracing tool designed to analyze performance by tracking kernel-user transitions.
- It produces detailed per-CPU-core timelines that can be zoomed to the nanosecond, aiding in solving performance issues in datacenters and real-time autonomous driving.
- The tool supports x86 and ARM processors, is open-sourced under various licenses, and includes files from the book "Understanding Software Dynamics" by Richard L. Sites.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40972099)

- KUtrace is a low-overhead Linux kernel tracing facility designed to help understand performance bottlenecks, particularly in multi-machine systems.
- Unlike eBPF tools, KUtrace requires kernel patches and root access, necessitating active maintenance.
- The tool is praised for its effectiveness, with recommendations for the book "Understanding Software Dynamics" by its author, Dick Sites, for further insights into system performance.

## [I am starting an AI+Education company](https://twitter.com/karpathy/status/1813263734707790301)

- Andrej Karpathy has announced the launch of his new company, Eureka Labs, which focuses on integrating AI with education.
- Eureka Labs aims to create an AI-native school designed to revolutionize the learning experience.
- The announcement was made via a tweet, generating significant interest in the tech and education communities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40978731)

- Andrej Karpathy is starting an AI+Education company, sparking discussions on the role of AI in education.
- Opinions vary on AI's potential, with some arguing it can assist but not replace teachers, while others believe AI can enhance and personalize learning experiences.
- The debate highlights the evolving landscape of education technology, emphasizing the need for innovative solutions to improve teaching and learning.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Run CUDA, unmodified, on AMD GPUs" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Run%20CUDA%2C%20unmodified%2C%20on%20AMD%20GPUs&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20July%2016%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
