---
slug: '/2024/07/17'
---

# 2024-07-17

## [Import and Export Markdown in Google Docs](https://workspaceupdates.googleblog.com/2024/07/import-and-export-markdown-in-google-docs.html)

- Google Docs now supports enhanced Markdown features, including converting Markdown to Docs content on paste, copying Docs content as Markdown, exporting a Doc as Markdown, and importing Markdown as a Doc.
- This update is beneficial for technical content writers, facilitating easier conversion between Docs and Markdown for collaboration and documentation.
- The rollout begins on July 16, 2024, for Rapid Release and Scheduled Release domains, and is available to all Google Workspace customers, Workspace Individual Subscribers, and personal Google account users.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40982118)

- Google Docs now supports full import/export of Markdown, enhancing its utility for technical writers and collaborators on Markdown documents.
- The feature is gradually rolling out to catch severe bugs early, so users may not see it immediately.
- Google Drive and its APIs will also support this new Markdown capability, although some users have concerns about slow rollouts and incomplete support for elements like code blocks and comments.

## [Panic at the Job Market](https://matt.sh/panic-at-the-job-market)

- The tech job market is in turmoil due to rising interest rates, speculative funding, and flawed hiring practices.
- Higher interest rates lead companies to invest in safe government-backed accounts rather than risky ventures, causing job losses in the tech sector.
- The hiring process often focuses on irrelevant coding tests and behavioral interviews, failing to assess candidates' true experience and capabilities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40986894)

- The job market is challenging across multiple industries, including tech, with complex hiring processes that overlook individual profiles and contributions.
- Networking is essential as job portals often obscure resumes, and the tech job market faces diminishing opportunities with companies focusing on irrelevant skills and arbitrary requirements.
- Inefficient hiring practices can indicate poor workplace environments, and the irrationality of the job market can outlast individuals' financial stability, complicating the search for suitable employment.

## [Jailbreaking RabbitOS: Uncovering secret logs, and GPL violations](https://www.da.vidbuchanan.co.uk/blog/r1-jailbreak.html)

- David Buchanan has developed a "tethered jailbreak" for the Rabbit R1, allowing root access without unlocking the bootloader or altering internal storage.
- The Rabbit R1, using a MediaTek MT6765 SoC, has been criticized for extensive user data logging and GPL violations, which were partially addressed in a recent update.
- Buchanan's findings reveal that RabbitOS is a heavily modified Android 13 AOSP, primarily enforcing a single-app kiosk mode, and he has released a tool to aid further exploration of the device.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40987730)

- Jailbreaking RabbitOS has revealed secret logs and potential GPL (General Public License) violations, raising privacy and legal concerns.
- Logs include sensitive data such as precise GPS locations, WiFi network names, IDs of nearby cell towers, and user tokens, some of which are sent to Rabbit's servers.
- Rabbit Inc. released an update (v0.8.112) addressing these logging issues, but the controversy highlights ongoing concerns about data privacy and transparency in tech products.

## [The Greatest Educational Life Hack: Learning Math Ahead of Time](https://www.justinmath.com/the-greatest-educational-life-hack-learning-math-ahead-of-time/)

- Learning math ahead of time can lead to better grades, protection against poor teaching, and access to internships, research projects, and strong recommendation letters, which are crucial for college and career opportunities.
- Advanced math courses beyond calculus, such as Linear Algebra and Differential Equations, are essential for many quantitative fields and can fast-track students into specialized fields, enhancing career accomplishments.
- Research indicates that educational acceleration does not harm psychological well-being and leads to greater academic and professional success, despite common misconceptions and logistical challenges.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40983734)

- A user shared their journey of overcoming math-phobia in their 30s, highlighting that it's never too late to learn math and its benefits for problem-solving and insights into programming.
- Suggestions for learning math later in life included starting with basic math books, utilizing community college resources, and gradually progressing to advanced topics.
- The discussion also emphasized the importance of early math education, parental involvement, and external resources like Kumon, as well as the broader educational system's role in fostering self-study and motivation.

## [The golden age of scammers: AI-powered phishing](https://www.mailgun.com/blog/email/ai-phishing/)

- Generative AI enables scammers to send highly personalized and convincing phishing emails, overcoming language barriers and automating mass campaigns.
- AI tools like WormGPT and FraudGPT assist in generating phishing emails and spoofing websites, significantly reducing the time needed to create effective attacks.
- Defense strategies include implementing DMARC (Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting & Conformance), recognizing AI phishing attempts, using multi-layered security, and maintaining a strong sender reputation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40981067)

- AI-powered phishing scams are becoming more sophisticated, leveraging technologies like Llama for text, Whisper/Tortoise for voice, and Stable Diffusion for images, though their deployment is still limited.
- Despite the potential for AI to enhance phishing, traditional methods like Indian call center scams remain highly effective and economically viable, as evidenced by a recent case where an elderly person was scammed out of $25,000.
- Banks and other institutions are improving their scam detection capabilities, but the rise of AI-driven scams necessitates increased awareness and education, especially for vulnerable populations like the elderly.

## [TinyPod – Apple Watch case with scroll wheel](https://thetinypod.com/)

- Introducing tinyPod, a compact device offering essential features like phone, music, messaging, and more, all powered by your Apple Watch.
- Key features include a tactile scroll wheel, quick magnetic charging, multi-day battery life, Apple Pay, and 32GB storage for media.
- Available in two models: tinyPod with a scroll wheel for $79.99 and tinyPod lite without a scroll wheel for $29.99, compatible with various Apple Watch series, shipping this summer.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40987402)

- TinyPod is an Apple Watch case that incorporates a scroll wheel, reminiscent of the iPod's clickwheel, creating a mechanical linkage with the digital crown.
- The product is seen as a fun, niche hardware idea, appealing to those who appreciate unique and whimsical tech gadgets, despite its impracticality.
- There are mixed reviews about the product's webpage functionality, with some users experiencing issues on Firefox, while others find the design appealing.

## [Jia Tan "JiaT75": Added error text to warning when untaring with bsdtar (2021)](https://github.com/libarchive/libarchive/pull/1609)

- Libarchive merged a commit to add error text to warnings when using bsdtar, addressing issue #1561, but concerns about replacing safe_fprintf with unsafe fprintf were raised.
- A fix was implemented to revert to safe_fprintf and use correct errno handling, with suggestions for further audits and a CVE (Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures) for the issue.
- The discussion underscored the importance of thorough code reviews and maintaining security in open-source projects, and the issue was resolved with the conversation locked.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40984589)

- Jia Tan "JiaT75" added error text to a warning in bsdtar in 2021, leading to a heated GitHub discussion about comment quality and code change scrutiny.
- The debate highlighted the challenges of maintaining large software projects and the potential role of AI in improving security reviews.
- The incident underscored the difficulty of detecting malicious code, especially from known contributors, and linked Jia Tan to a state-sponsored attack on the xz tool.

## [Puerto Rico files $1B suit against fossil fuel companies](https://www.theverge.com/2024/7/16/24199686/puerto-rico-fossil-fuel-industry-lawsuit-climate-change)

- Puerto Rico has filed a $1 billion lawsuit against major fossil fuel companies, including ExxonMobil, BP, Chevron, Shell, and ConocoPhillips, for allegedly misleading the public about climate change and delaying the transition to clean energy.
- The lawsuit, filed in San Juan, claims these companies violated trade laws by promoting fossil fuels without adequate warnings about their dangers, seeking damages to defend against climate disasters like Hurricane Maria.
- This legal action is part of a broader trend of similar lawsuits against the fossil fuel industry, highlighting growing accountability efforts for climate-related impacts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40986213)

- Puerto Rico has initiated a $1 billion lawsuit against fossil fuel companies, accusing them of causing climate change-related damages and seeking stricter environmental regulations.
- The lawsuit underscores the ongoing debate between the economic benefits of fossil fuels and the necessity for sustainable practices and corporate accountability.
- Opinions are divided, with some emphasizing the importance of corporate responsibility for pollution and misinformation, while others stress the role of individual actions and government policies in combating climate change.

## [Gitlab Explores Sale](https://www.reuters.com/markets/deals/google-backed-software-developer-gitlab-explores-sale-sources-say-2024-07-17/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40983486)

- Gitlab is considering a sale, raising concerns among users about potential shutdowns or changes in service models, reminiscent of past issues with RedHat and CentOS.
- Users debate the merits of open-source options like Gitlab, citing easier migration and community support, while speculating on potential buyers such as Datadog or IBM.
- Criticisms of Gitlab's pricing and enterprise focus have led some users to contemplate switching to alternatives like GitHub, reflecting mixed sentiments about future stability and costs.

## [Darwin Machines](https://vedgie.net/writing/darwin_machines.md)

- The post discusses William Calvin's theory from "The Cerebral Code," which suggests the brain uses evolutionary processes within minicolumns to process sensory inputs and find the most "fit" patterns.
- The theory posits that the brain's structure, particularly the neocortex's columns and minicolumns, allows for efficient problem-solving and parallel processing, which could be applied to AI and machine learning (ML).
- The author is experimenting with neural networks to mimic this evolutionary process and seeks advice on research and academic insights in this field, highlighting potential advancements in AI's deep thinking capabilities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40981068)

- The post discusses the concept of Darwin Machines, where different sensory data modalities are processed by brain minicolumns, each outputting unique firing patterns that compete and reinforce the dominant pattern, aiding learning.
- Capsule-routing algorithms, proposed by Geoffrey Hinton, aim to implement this idea using expectation-maximization (EM) processes, but have been overshadowed by the success of transformers in AI research.
- The discussion highlights the importance of understanding brain function and neural networks, referencing Hebbian learning and the need for deeper exploration of temporal dynamics in neural activity.

## [Magic-cli – A copilot for your command line](https://github.com/guywaldman/magic-cli)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40980715)

- Magic-cli, a command line copilot developed by Guy Waldman, has sparked discussions due to its default "unsafe-execution" mode, with suggestions for a safer default like "clipboard" mode.
- Users have shared opinions and experiences, mentioning alternative tools such as zsh_codex, aichat, and Warp terminal.
- The project is built in Rust, raising questions about its complexity compared to simpler implementations in other languages.

## [Google presents method to circumvent automatic blocking of tag manager](https://developers.google.com/tag-platform/tag-manager/first-party/setup-guide)

- Google is introducing a beta feature for deploying tags in first-party mode, enhancing tag performance and data privacy by using the website's domain for hosting.
- The setup involves reserving a unique path on the domain, routing traffic through services like Google Cloud or Cloudflare, and updating website scripts to use the new measurement path.
- Users are encouraged to test the setup using Tag Assistant and provide feedback through a designated feedback form or contact email.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40983585)

- Google has introduced a method to bypass the automatic blocking of its Tag Manager, raising concerns about privacy and the effectiveness of ad blockers.
- Users discuss strategies to block tracking, such as using uBlock Origin with JavaScript disabled by default, and selectively enabling it for ease of use and speed benefits.
- The new method by Google has sparked a debate on balancing data collection for business purposes with user privacy, with some users expressing frustration over Google's tracking practices.

## [After 12 years of reviewing restaurants, I'm leaving the table](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/16/dining/pete-wells-steps-down-food-critic.html)

- Pete Wells, after 12 years as The New York Times restaurant critic, is stepping down due to health concerns, including high cholesterol, blood sugar, and hypertension.
- Despite the rewarding nature of his role, the physical toll of frequent restaurant visits has become unsustainable for Wells.
- Wells will remain at The Times but will no longer handle the demands of weekly reviews, choosing instead to focus on his health and a more balanced lifestyle.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40979539)

- A long-time restaurant reviewer is stepping down after 12 years, sparking discussions about his impact and the future of restaurant reviews.
- The reviewer was known for his diverse restaurant choices and his unique, sometimes standoffish, approach to reviews.
- The announcement has generated excitement for the incoming reviewer, Mellissa Clark, and reflections on the experiences of those in the restaurant industry.

## [Introduction to Bash Scripting](https://github.com/bobbyiliev/introduction-to-bash-scripting)

- An open-source guide/ebook on Bash scripting has been released, aimed at automating tasks for developers, system administrators, and DevOps engineers.
- The ebook covers a wide range of topics from basic Bash structure to advanced scripting techniques, including working with APIs and generating passwords.
- Additional resources include a mini video course, interactive training via Katacoda, and contributions from the Linux DevOps Engineer, Bobby Iliev.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40982011)

- Bash scripting is often compared to Python for terminal tasks, with Bash being more efficient for filesystem operations and simple command sequences due to its native terminal integration.
- Critics highlight Python's complexity for basic tasks and Bash's clunky syntax, but Bash remains essential in environments without Python pre-installed.
- Alternatives like Ruby's shell or Perl for text parsing exist, and tools like ChatGPT can assist in script generation, but understanding Bash basics is still valuable.

## [Return-to-Office Mandates Aren't Worth the Talent Risks](https://www.gartner.com/en/articles/the-data-is-in-return-to-office-mandates-aren-t-worth-the-talent-risks)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40983717)

- Return-to-office (RTO) mandates risk losing top talent, as employees with alternatives may leave first, potentially causing a domino effect.
- Flexible options, such as travel compensation or improved office amenities, are suggested as better alternatives to strict RTO mandates.
- The debate includes perspectives on productivity, mentorship, and personal preferences, with some viewing RTO as driven by outdated management views or economic pressures.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Import and Export Markdown in Google Docs" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Import%20and%20Export%20Markdown%20in%20Google%20Docs&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20July%2017%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
