---
slug: '/2024/07/20'
---

# 2024-07-20

## [I mapped almost every USA traffic death in the 21st century](https://roadway.report)

- The Nationwide Vision-Zero Map is a new initiative aimed at eliminating traffic fatalities and severe injuries on roadways.
- This map provides a comprehensive overview of traffic safety data across the country, helping to identify high-risk areas and implement targeted safety measures.
- The initiative is part of a broader Vision-Zero strategy, which has been adopted by various cities and countries to improve road safety through data-driven approaches and community engagement.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41012443)

- A comprehensive map of nearly every USA traffic death in the 21st century was created, with users suggesting a heatmap to identify fatality hotspots.
- Discussions highlighted data inaccuracies from the NHTSA's FARS database, including issues with police reports and state reporting systems.
- Users debated the impact of road design on safety, advocating for narrower streets and traffic calming measures, and discussed the balance between road safety and traffic efficiency.

## [Researcher finds flaw in a16z website that exposed some company data](https://www.kibty.town/blog/a16z/)

- A security researcher discovered a vulnerability in a16z crypto's subdomain, revealing sensitive information such as AWS keys and database contents.
- The exposed credentials included access to AWS, Salesforce, Mailgun, and a database containing Personally Identifiable Information (PII).
- The researcher did not receive a bug bounty due to public disclosure after failing to find a private contact method, which they deemed unfair.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41016768)

- A researcher identified a vulnerability in the a16z website that exposed company data but received no bug bounty due to public disclosure after private contact attempts failed.
- The incident has ignited debates on responsible disclosure, company security practices, and the ethics of unpaid bug hunting.
- Criticism has been directed at a16z for not compensating the researcher, highlighting the responsibilities of both companies and security researchers in handling such discoveries.

## [Garage: Open-Source Distributed Object Storage](https://garagehq.deuxfleurs.fr/)

- Garage is an open-source distributed object storage service designed for self-hosting, offering redundancy by replicating data across three zones.
- Key features include lightweight and efficient deployment, versatility across multiple datacenters, and resilience to network and hardware failures.
- It supports heterogeneous hardware, implements the Amazon S3 API for compatibility, and is funded by NGI POINTER, NLnet / NGI0 Entrust, and the European Union's Horizon 2021 research and innovation programme.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41013004)

- Garage is an open-source distributed object storage system that users are adopting over Minio due to better performance with small files and replication.
- Key features include significant performance improvements, low memory usage, and CRDTs (Conflict-free Replicated Data Types) for distributed consensus.
- The project is AGPL-licensed and aims to offer a flexible, self-hosted storage solution, with ongoing discussions about compliance features and comparisons to other storage systems like SeaweedFS, IPFS, and Tahoe-LAFS.

## [Multisatellite data depicts a record-breaking methane leak from a well blowout](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.estlett.4c00399)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41012193)

- Multisatellite data has identified a record-breaking methane leak from a well blowout, highlighting that oil and gas-related methane emissions are significantly underreported by the industry.
- Methane's greenhouse gas potential is 20 times that of CO2 over 100 years, making some production paths worse than coal in terms of climate impact.
- The incident in Kazakhstan underscores the need for stronger climate policies and accurate metering to address methane leaks, which are exacerbated by weakened regulatory agencies and outdated infrastructure.

## [Typst: An easy to learn alternative for LaTex](https://github.com/typst/typst)

- Typst is a new, user-friendly markup-based typesetting system designed to be as powerful as LaTeX, featuring built-in markup, flexible functions, integrated scripting, and fast compile times.
- The Typst compiler and CLI (Command Line Interface) are available for local document compilation, with a free online editor currently in public beta for an enhanced experience.
- Users can join the Typst community on Discord for support and access community-built resources, with opportunities to contribute by reporting bugs or suggesting features.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41014941)

- Typst is presented as an easier and more resource-efficient alternative to LaTeX for generating PDFs, with users reporting significant performance improvements.
- The tool is praised for its intuitive templating system, making it more accessible for users compared to LaTeX, especially for generating large volumes of documents quickly.
- Typst is gaining attention due to its potential to streamline academic writing and regulatory document generation, though it currently lacks some features like HTML output and full TeX support.

## [AI paid for by Ads – the GPT-4o mini inflection point](https://batchmon.com/blog/ai-cheaper-than-ads/)

- OpenAI has launched the GPT-4o mini model, priced at $0.15 per 1 million input tokens and $0.60 per 1 million output tokens, making it more affordable and intelligent than GPT-3.5 Turbo.
- The low cost of GPT-4o mini enables the creation of AI-generated content that can be supported entirely by ad revenue, potentially transforming online content creation.
- For example, generating a blog post with GPT-4o mini costs $0.00051525, while ad revenue per page view can be around $0.0026, resulting in a net profit of approximately $0.002 per page view.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41010188)

- The discussion highlights concerns about the future of web content, suggesting that AI-generated content may soon dominate, leading to a cycle of AI training on AI outputs.
- There is a debate on the quality of current web content, with some arguing that much of it is already low-quality SEO (Search Engine Optimization) material, and AI might exacerbate this issue.
- The conversation touches on the difficulty of distinguishing between human and AI-generated text, raising questions about the authenticity and originality of online interactions and content.

## [No Uptime Hosting (2006)](https://nouptime.com/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41016290)

- No Uptime Hosting is a satirical website, humorously offering outdated and impractical hosting services, such as accepting files on floppy disks and supporting obsolete operating systems like OS/2 Warp.
- The HTML source code of the site is intentionally filled with errors and outdated practices, such as mixed doctype declarations, raw PHP tags, and missing closing tags, adding layers to the joke.
- The community finds the humor in the absurdity of the service offerings and the intentionally poor website design, with many comments highlighting the nostalgic and comedic elements.

## [Never Update Anything](https://blog.kronis.dev/articles/never-update-anything)

- The article presents a controversial view against frequent software updates, highlighting the disruptions and resource consumption they cause.
- It suggests a more stable approach, using examples like the Lazarus IDE and FreeBSD's stable packages, to reduce the need for constant updates.
- The author advocates for slowing down the pace of updates, focusing on long-term stability and non-breaking changes to ease maintenance and reduce developer cognitive load.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41009942)

- Before the internet, software updates were infrequent and costly, making buggy software a significant issue.
- The internet facilitated easier updates, leading companies to push frequent updates and use customers as testers, resulting in less stable software.
- There is a debate between prioritizing long-term support (LTS) versions for stability versus the industry trend of frequent updates at the expense of quality.

## [Public toilets are vanishing and that's a civic catastrophe](https://psyche.co/ideas/public-toilets-are-vanishing-and-thats-a-civic-catastrophe)

- Public toilets are vanishing, leading to a civic crisis, particularly affecting individuals with health issues and marginalized groups.
- Guido Corradi, a psychology researcher, underscores the poor state of public restrooms in affluent Western nations, highlighting their impact on public health and human dignity.
- Studies indicate that poor, less educated individuals, and women experience more negative encounters with public restrooms, stressing the need for improved facilities and public awareness campaigns.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41015731)

- The disappearance of public toilets in the US has led to significant accessibility issues, forcing people to rely on businesses for restroom access.
- Although the Committee To End Pay Toilets In America succeeded in banning pay toilets, no measures were taken to replace them with free public toilets.
- In some states like Florida, businesses are required to have public restrooms, but access is often restricted to customers, highlighting the need for improved public restroom infrastructure.

## [Doom on Playdate](https://devforum.play.date/t/doom-on-playdate/852)

- An early version of Doom has been successfully ported to the Playdate, a handheld gaming console.
- The developer faced significant challenges with makefiles, compilers, and linker issues, particularly missing references in libc, which were resolved by adjusting linker options and modifying the Playdate SDK.
- The game now runs on both the simulator and actual hardware, allowing the developer to focus on game control, presentation, and optimization.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41013159)

- The Playdate handheld console is running Doom, sparking discussions on optimizing its display using various dithering techniques for better visual clarity.
- Users are debating the merits of different dithering methods, such as Atkinson and ordered dithering, and referencing other games like Return of the Obra Dinn for inspiration.
- The Playdate uses a Sharp Memory LCD, which offers fast refresh rates and low power consumption, though some users wish it had a backlight for better usability.

## [The European Union must keep funding free software](https://pad.public.cat/lettre-NCP-NGI)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41010458)

- The European Union is encouraged to increase funding for free software, as current contributions are minimal compared to commercial efforts.
- A new funding model may be necessary to foster a thriving free software ecosystem, with NLnet's impact being limited compared to major companies like Google.
- The debate centers on the effectiveness of government funding for technical projects and the EU's position in the tech industry.

## [CrowdStrike debacle provides road map of American vulnerabilities to adversaries](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/19/us/politics/crowdstrike-outage.html)

- A software update bug caused a digital meltdown on Friday, impacting airports, hospitals, and TV stations, highlighting the fragility of interconnected networks.
- The incident was due to human error, not a nation-state attack, and involved CrowdStrike’s software, which is intended to neutralize cyberattacks.
- This event underscores the need for improved digital resilience, despite ongoing efforts by the U.S. government and private sector to enhance cybersecurity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41017077)

- The CrowdStrike incident has exposed vulnerabilities in American critical infrastructure, prompting debates on the use of operating systems (OS) that need frequent security patches.
- Experts are suggesting alternatives like Linux or OpenBSD, which are perceived to offer better security compared to Windows, which is widely used due to historical and practical reasons.
- The incident emphasizes the necessity for built-in security features in systems and raises concerns about the broader implications for national security and infrastructure resilience.

## [Google's shortened links will stop working next year](https://www.theverge.com/2024/7/19/24201734/google-url-link-shortening-service-shut-down-support)

- Google’s shortened links (goo.gl) will stop working after August 25th, 2025, resulting in a 404 error for all such links.
- Starting August 23rd, 2024, goo.gl links will show an interstitial page warning users about the upcoming shutdown.
- Google advises developers to update affected links to avoid disruptions, noting that the goo.gl service was initially shut down in 2019 with a recommendation to switch to Firebase Dynamic Links, which has also been deprecated.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41014089)

- Google's URL shortening service will cease operations next year, causing frustration among users who rely on it for redirects.
- Critics highlight Google's pattern of discontinuing services, attributing the decision to maintenance costs and internal policies.
- Users suggest alternatives like AWS for redirects and propose simpler solutions or outsourcing to keep the service functional.

## [Academics shocked after T&F sells access to their research to Microsoft AI](https://www.thebookseller.com/news/academic-authors-shocked-after-taylor--francis-sells-access-to-their-research-to-microsoft-ai)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41011779)

- Academics are frustrated with Taylor & Francis for selling access to their research to Microsoft AI, arguing that publicly funded research should be freely accessible to maximize its benefits.
- Critics claim that charging for access creates barriers and hinders scientific progress, emphasizing the importance of proper attribution and the moral right to credit.
- The situation underscores the ongoing tension between open access and traditional publishing models, which often profit from publicly funded research.

## [Technical Details on Today's Outage](https://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/technical-details-on-todays-outage/)

- On July 19, 2024, CrowdStrike released a sensor configuration update for Windows systems, causing system crashes and blue screens (BSOD) due to a logic error, which was fixed within approximately 1.5 hours.
- The issue affected customers using Falcon sensor for Windows version 7.11 and above, who were online between 04:09 UTC and 05:27 UTC, due to a problematic Channel File 291 designed to evaluate named pipe execution.
- Systems running Linux or macOS were not impacted, and a root cause analysis is ongoing to prevent future issues.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41013198)

- CrowdStrike experienced a significant outage due to a malformed configuration file, causing Windows systems to crash with Blue Screen of Death (BSOD) and boot loops.
- The issue stemmed from an update targeting malicious named pipes, which inadvertently led to CrowdStrike's own systems blocking themselves, highlighting a lack of adequate testing and rollout procedures.
- This incident has raised concerns about CrowdStrike's quality control, testing practices, and the robustness of their deployment strategies, especially given their critical role in cybersecurity for many organizations.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="I mapped almost every USA traffic death in the 21st century" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=I%20mapped%20almost%20every%20USA%20traffic%20death%20in%20the%2021st%20century&subheading=Saturday%2C%20July%2020%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
