---
slug: '/2024/07/23'
---

# 2024-07-23

## [Open source AI is the path forward](https://about.fb.com/news/2024/07/open-source-ai-is-the-path-forward/)

- Open-source Linux became the industry standard for cloud computing and mobile devices due to its modifiability, affordability, and advanced features, similar to the expected trajectory of AI.
- Meta has released Llama 3.1 405B, the first frontier-level open-source AI model, along with improved 70B and 8B models, emphasizing better cost/performance and suitability for fine-tuning.
- Meta collaborates with companies like Amazon, Databricks, and NVIDIA to support developers, aiming to make open-source AI the industry standard, promoting transparency, security, and economic growth.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41046773)

- Meta has launched Llama 3.1, an open-source AI model, featuring a 405 billion parameter model and enhanced 70 billion and 8 billion parameter models.
- This release is perceived as a strategic move to challenge competitors like OpenAI, Google, and Microsoft by offering advanced AI models for free, with restrictions for companies exceeding 700 million users.
- Critics argue that without access to the training data and infrastructure, these models are more akin to freeware than genuinely open-source, sparking debate on Meta's true intentions and the broader implications.

## [Kawaii – A Keychain-Sized Nintendo Wii](https://bitbuilt.net/forums/index.php?threads/kawaii.6474/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41038552)

- The "Thundervolt" project involves modifying a Nintendo Wii by trimming down its PCB (Printed Circuit Board) to retain only essential components like DRAM (Dynamic Random-Access Memory) and processors, and adding an external DCDC (Direct Current to Direct Current) board for power.
- The project aims to create a keychain-sized Wii, named "Kawaii," which is smaller than other miniaturized versions like the GC Nano, but still requires a dock for full functionality, including power input and controller connections.
- This project highlights the ongoing interest and innovation in retro gaming and console miniaturization, showcasing the community's dedication to preserving and enhancing classic gaming hardware.

## [Timeshift: System Restore Tool for Linux](https://github.com/linuxmint/timeshift)

- Timeshift for Linux is a system backup tool similar to Windows System Restore and Mac OS Time Machine, focusing on system files and settings.
- It supports two modes: RSYNC (using rsync and hard-links) and BTRFS (using BTRFS filesystem features), with the latter requiring a specific subvolume layout.
- Developed by Tony George and now part of the Xapp project by Linux Mint, Timeshift offers features like multiple snapshot levels, cross-distribution restores, and post-restore hooks, with installation instructions available for various Linux distributions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41039967)

- Timeshift is a system restore tool for Linux, similar to macOS's Time Machine and Windows' System Restore, allowing users to create filesystem snapshots using rsync and hardlinks.
- Users discuss various backup solutions and configurations, including restic, rclone, ZFS, BTRFS, and LVM snapshots, highlighting the importance of atomic snapshots for database consistency and reliable backups.
- The conversation emphasizes the need for robust backup strategies, comparing tools like restic, Borg, and kopia, and discussing the pros and cons of different filesystems and snapshot methods.

## [July 2024 Update on Instability Reports on Intel Core 13th/14th Gen Desktop CPUs](https://community.intel.com/t5/Processors/July-2024-Update-on-Instability-Reports-on-Intel-Core-13th-and/m-p/1617113#M74792)

- Intel has identified instability in its 13th and 14th Gen desktop processors caused by elevated operating voltage from a microcode algorithm.
- A microcode patch to address this issue is expected by mid-August, and Intel advises affected customers to contact support for assistance.
- Users have expressed concerns about potential long-term CPU damage, the need for BIOS updates, and have reported RMA (Return Merchandise Authorization) issues while seeking guidance on managing the instability until the patch is released.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41039708)

- Intel's July 2024 update indicates a microcode issue in 13th/14th Gen desktop CPUs causing incorrect voltage requests, though some users suspect a hardware fault.
- Concerns arise due to Intel's delay in addressing the problem and reports of non-faulty CPUs shipping without updated microcode, potentially leading to long-term CPU degradation.
- Intel plans to release a microcode patch, but its effectiveness and impact on performance are uncertain, with users reporting mixed experiences regarding CPU stability.

## [Database Design for Google Calendar: A Tutorial](https://kb.databasedesignbook.com/posts/google-calendar/)

- The tutorial by Alexey Makhotkin provides a comprehensive guide on designing database tables for a Google Calendar clone, following the approach from the upcoming book “Database Design using Minimal Modeling.”
- It covers the logical model extensively, detailing how to handle basic all-day events, time-based events, and repeated events, and then transitions to creating physical SQL tables.
- The tutorial is aimed at readers with a general understanding of databases, helping them move from conceptual ideas to complete database table definitions, and includes practical steps for implementing the design.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41043371)

- A discussion on Google Calendar's database design suggests optimizing an iCalendar parser for fast event scanning instead of creating a complex schema.
- Concerns were raised about the need for SQL-like range searches and user-specific queries, which traditional databases handle well.
- The debate included challenges like timezones, daylight savings, and recurring events, with a consensus that SQL's ability to manage relationships and queries makes it suitable for calendar applications.

## [The Elegance of the ASCII Table](https://danq.me/2024/07/21/ascii/)

- The ASCII table, standardized in 1963, assigns meanings to 100 of 128 possible 7-bit binary codepoints and remains relevant today, especially with UTF-8 encoding being backward-compatible.
- The table includes control codes, printable characters, and follows specific binary patterns, with the space character being the first printable character for sorting purposes.
- ASCII’s design is logical and aesthetically pleasing, making it coherent for humans to learn and understand, reflecting its historical significance and refined logic.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41040543)

- The post discusses the elegance and utility of the ASCII table, a character encoding standard used in computing.
- It highlights how users can access the ASCII table on Linux systems via the command `man ascii`, which is useful for shell escape codes and regular expressions (regex).
- The conversation includes historical context and personal anecdotes about learning various technologies through manpages, emphasizing the ASCII table's longstanding relevance in computing.

## [Is it possible to make FAANG salaries without working there?](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41042123)

- The salary gap between FAANG (Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix, Google) and non-FAANG companies is substantial, with FAANG engineers receiving significantly higher compensation packages.
- A Staff Engineer at a typical startup might earn a $250k base salary plus a 10-20% bonus, whereas a FAANG Staff Engineer could receive a similar base salary plus $1 million in stock over four years.
- The post questions if individuals outside of FAANG and big banks/high-frequency trading (HFT) firms earn comparable amounts, and seeks to identify who they are and their roles.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41042123)

- Earning FAANG-level salaries outside of FAANG companies is possible but rare, often involving niche or high-stress roles.
- High-paying alternatives include hedge funds, high-frequency trading firms, specialized consulting, niche software companies, legacy systems expertise, and entrepreneurship.
- These roles typically come with high stress, intense competition, or significant risk and effort, making them less common and straightforward compared to FAANG jobs.

## [Llama 3.1](https://llama.meta.com/)

- Llama 3.1 is an open-source AI model available in three versions: 8B, 70B, and 405B, catering to different performance and cost needs.
- It supports advanced use cases, including coding assistants, multi-lingual agents, and complex reasoning, with capabilities for real-time and batch inference, fine-tuning, and synthetic data generation.
- The model has been evaluated on over 150 datasets, showing high performance in general, code, math, reasoning, tool use, and multilingual benchmarks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41046540)

- Llama 3.1, an open-source AI model by Meta, is showing competitive performance against closed-source models like GPT-4.
- The 405B model demonstrates significant benchmark improvements but is impractical for home use without cloud support, highlighting challenges in running large models locally.
- Meta's release of powerful open models aims to disrupt the competitive landscape, sparking interest in hardware requirements, quantization solutions, and the broader implications for AI development and accessibility.

## [Button Stealer](https://anatolyzenkov.com/stolen-buttons/button-stealer)

- Button Stealer is a Chrome extension that automatically removes a button from every website you visit.
- The extension is designed to be fun and is free to use, with no practical utility.
- It ensures user data privacy by operating locally on the user's device.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41042294)

- Button Stealer, a Chrome extension, raises security concerns due to its broad permissions, which could allow it to scrape data from any webpage.
- Users suggest reviewing the code on GitHub and installing it locally to avoid potential malicious updates, while others argue such risky extensions should not be in the Chrome store.
- The discussion emphasizes the need for more specific permissions and improved security practices for browser extensions.

## [Re: Do people IRL know you have a blog?](https://lars-christian.com/re-do-people-irl-know-you-have-a-blog/)

- The author discusses the personal significance of maintaining a blog for nearly twenty years, despite indifference from people in real life (IRL).
- The blog serves as a form of self-expression and freedom, contrasting with the pressures of social media and big tech.
- Responses from readers highlight various perspectives, including the benefits of blogging for personal clarity, concerns about AI exploitation, and encouragement to write without analytics.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41041537)

- Personal websites offer flexibility and refinement without the pressure of regular updates, unlike blogs which can feel lazy and unwelcoming.
- Blogs may be useful for historians and sharing thoughts, but personal pages are preferred for their organization and creative potential.
- Some individuals use pseudonyms on personal websites to avoid professional repercussions, highlighting the personal nature of these platforms.

## [Wiz walks away from $23B deal with Google](https://www.cnbc.com/2024/07/23/google-wiz-deal-dead.html)

- Wiz has decided to abandon a $23 billion acquisition deal with Google and will pursue an Initial Public Offering (IPO) instead, as announced by CEO Assaf Rappaport.
- The decision was influenced by antitrust and investor concerns, with Wiz aiming for $1 billion in annual recurring revenue.
- Founded in 2020, Wiz has quickly grown, achieving $350 million in annual recurring revenue last year, and offers cloud security products.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41042034)

- Wiz has withdrawn from a $23 billion deal with Google, possibly due to Google re-evaluating the deal after an internal data review.
- Wiz claims they walked away because they believe their valuation is higher, though skepticism exists about their high valuation, reportedly over 60 times their Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR).
- The deal's collapse raises questions about Wiz's actual value and future, despite their rapid growth to $100 million ARR since their founding in 2020.

## [Intent to End OCSP Service](https://letsencrypt.org/2024/07/23/replacing-ocsp-with-crls.html)

- Let’s Encrypt is ending support for Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) in favor of Certificate Revocation Lists (CRLs) due to privacy risks and resource efficiency.
- This change will not affect websites or visitors but may impact some non-browser software; users are advised to ensure their software functions without an OCSP URL.
- The CA/Browser Forum's decision makes OCSP optional for publicly trusted Certificate Authorities (CAs), with Microsoft being the only exception; a timeline for shutting down OCSP services will be announced once Microsoft also makes it optional.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41046956)

- Let's Encrypt plans to discontinue its OCSP (Online Certificate Status Protocol) service due to issues with Certificate Revocation Lists (CRLs) and the complexity of OCSP systems.
- Proposals include using a binary format for CRLs to improve efficiency and mandatory OCSP stapling to address privacy concerns, though this could disrupt many websites.
- The shift away from OCSP may affect non-browser applications and embedded devices, but users of standard web servers like Nginx or Caddy should not need immediate changes.

## [The Linux audio stack demystified (and more)](https://blog.rtrace.io/posts/the-linux-audio-stack-demystified/)

- The article provides a comprehensive overview of the Linux audio stack, explaining sound basics, human sound perception, and digital audio processing.
- Key components of the Linux audio stack include ALSA for low-level hardware control, JACK for low-latency real-time audio, and PulseAudio for higher-level audio management, with PipeWire emerging as a unifying solution.
- PipeWire is highlighted as a versatile option that integrates features of both JACK and PulseAudio, potentially replacing them in future Linux distributions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41042753)

- The Linux audio stack, though complex, supports diverse hardware and functionalities, including multiplexing and network features.
- Pipewire aims to unify the Linux audio stack, supporting various APIs and improving on PulseAudio, offering enhanced versatility and stability.
- While some users face challenges with advanced setups, many appreciate the improvements and flexibility Pipewire brings to Linux audio.

## [United States Discloses Nuclear Warhead Numbers; Restores Nuclear Transparency](https://fas.org/publication/united-states-discloses-nuclear-warhead-numbers-restores-nuclear-transparency/)

- The Federation of American Scientists (FAS) praises the U.S. for declassifying its nuclear warhead numbers, enhancing nuclear transparency.
- As of September 2023, the U.S. has 3,748 nuclear warheads, with only 69 dismantled last year, the lowest since 1994.
- The Biden administration's disclosure reinstates transparency paused by the Trump administration, and FAS encourages other nuclear states to adopt similar transparency to prevent mistrust and misinformation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41040417)

- The United States has revealed its nuclear warhead numbers, reinstating nuclear transparency and sparking discussions on production capacity and strategic importance.
- Key topics include the speed of potential production ramp-up, the impact of stockpile size on global safety and geopolitics, and the maintenance challenges like plutonium aging and tritium replacement.
- The disclosure aims to reassure allies and deter adversaries by showcasing the U.S.'s significant nuclear capabilities.

## [Lisp in C#](https://github.com/codr7/sharpl)

- Sharpl is a custom Lisp interpreter written in C# with around 4,000 lines of code and no external dependencies, making it easy to embed.
- Key features include pairs, arrays, maps, method compositions, varargs, a unified iterator protocol, and a fixpoint decimal type, among others.
- It supports lexical and dynamic bindings, tail call optimization to prevent stack overflow, and provides detailed error reporting with line numbers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41041575)

- A developer named codr7 is working on a Lisp implementation in C# and seeking optimization help from the community.
- Significant performance improvements have been achieved by community suggestions, such as changing how ArrayStack is accessed and using Span and ReadOnlySpan for data slicing.
- The project is not aiming for standard compliance but rather for practical performance and usability, with ongoing discussions about integrating features like macros and Fexprs (function expressions).

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Open source AI is the path forward" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Open%20source%20AI%20is%20the%20path%20forward&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20July%2023%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
