---
slug: '/2024/07/27'
---

# 2024-07-27

## [SQLite: 35% Faster Than the Filesystem](https://sqlite.org/fasterthanfs.html)

- SQLite reads and writes small blobs (e.g., thumbnail images) 35% faster than using individual files on disk, and uses about 20% less disk space.
- The efficiency is attributed to fewer open() and close() system calls and tighter data packing, with performance expected to improve in future versions.
- Tests show SQLite generally outperforms direct file I/O, especially on Windows with anti-virus software enabled, though performance can vary based on hardware and OS.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41085376)

- SQLite is 35% faster than traditional filesystems due to fewer open/close system calls and no need for file system attributes or metadata checks.
- This performance boost is especially significant on Windows, where filesystem calls are inherently slower.
- Despite some limitations, such as a 2GB blob maximum and challenges with hierarchical data, SQLite's speed and simplicity make it advantageous for logs and other data storage.

## [The Linux Kernel Module Programming Guide](https://sysprog21.github.io/lkmpg/)

- The Linux Kernel Module Programming Guide provides a comprehensive introduction to creating and managing kernel modules, which are dynamically loadable code segments that enhance kernel capabilities without requiring a reboot.
- Key tools and commands for working with kernel modules include `modprobe`, `insmod`, `depmod`, `lsmod`, and `cat /proc/modules`.
- The guide covers essential topics such as module initialization and cleanup, handling command-line arguments, managing device drivers, interacting with the `/proc` and `sysfs` file systems, and avoiding common pitfalls in kernel programming.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41083972)

- The Linux Kernel Module Programming Guide highlights using QEMU for kernel hacking and suggests updating Linux device driver books.
- Greg KH confirmed there won't be a 4th edition of the Linux Device Drivers book, sparking discussions on alternative resources like "The Linux Memory Manager" and "Linux Insides."
- Users shared experiences with QEMU for debugging and the WireGuard test suite for kernel module development, emphasizing the importance of human review in writing.

## [Courts Close the Loophole Letting the Feds Search Your Phone at the Border](https://reason.com/2024/07/26/courts-close-the-loophole-letting-the-feds-search-your-phone-at-the-border/)

- A federal judge ruled that Customs and Border Protection (CBP) cannot search electronics at the border without a warrant, addressing a loophole in the Fourth Amendment.
- Judge Nina Morrison stated that cellphone searches are "nonroutine" and require probable cause and a warrant, comparing them to strip searches due to their significant privacy impact.
- The ruling, supported by civil libertarians, is seen as crucial for press freedom and privacy rights, following similar decisions in other circuits and districts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41083286)

- A District Court in New York ruled that warrantless cellphone searches at the border are "nonroutine" and more invasive than other types of searches, likening them to strip searches.
- This decision is not binding precedent and contrasts with rulings from other Circuit Courts, indicating a potential for the Supreme Court to address the issue due to the existing "circuit split."
- The ruling reflects ongoing debates about privacy rights and government powers, especially in the context of border security and the Fourth Amendment.

## [In the Beginning Was the Command Line (1999)](https://web.stanford.edu/class/cs81n/command.txt)

- Neal Stephenson's essay "In the Beginning was the Command Line" explores the evolution of operating systems (OS) and their market dynamics, focusing on Apple and Microsoft.
- Microsoft achieved market dominance by selling OS like consumer goods, emphasizing convenience and ease, which resonated with broader cultural trends valuing simplicity over complexity.
- Despite the rise of superior, free alternatives like Linux and BeOS, most consumers preferred Microsoft's familiar products, highlighting a societal preference for mediated experiences through graphical user interfaces (GUIs).

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41084795)

- Neal Stephenson's essay "In the Beginning Was the Command Line" (1999) highlights the advantages of Command Line Interfaces (CLI) over Graphical User Interfaces (GUIs), emphasizing their conciseness and ease of communication.
- The essay compares the evolution of operating systems to cars, underscoring the stability and user control provided by CLIs despite the popularity of GUIs.
- It also delves into the cultural and philosophical implications of technology interfaces, offering a broader perspective on how we interact with technology.

## [TOTP tokens on my wrist with the smartest dumb watch](https://blog.singleton.io/posts/2022-10-17-otp-on-wrist/)

- Sensor Watch has released a new replacement logic board for the classic Casio F-91W, upgrading it with an ARM Cortex M0+ processor while retaining the original LCD, pushers, and piezo-buzzer.
- The upgraded board is programmable, allowing for customizable watchfaces and utility apps, including features like 2FA tokens, ratemeter, world clock, and more.
- The watch is easy to hack, with a wasm-based emulator for testing, and detailed documentation is available for those interested in modifying or building their own watchfaces.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41081435)

- A discussion on Hacker News highlights the use of TOTP (Time-based One-Time Password) tokens on Casio watches, specifically the F-91W and A158W models, for two-factor authentication (2FA).
- The project involves modifying the watch's firmware to display TOTP codes, with community contributions enhancing features like user calibration and even creating games for the watch.
- Concerns are raised about the security of having TOTP codes visible on a watch, with some suggesting alternatives like FIDO2 hardware keys for better protection against phishing attacks.

## [Linux Network Performance Ultimate Guide](https://ntk148v.github.io/posts/linux-network-performance-ultimate-guide/)

- The guide provides an in-depth look at optimizing Linux network performance, covering topics from the networking stack to advanced packet processing techniques.
- Key tuning steps include adjusting NIC ring buffer sizes, interrupt coalescence, IRQ affinity, and using tools like AF_PACKET, DPDK, and XDP for high-performance packet handling.
- Monitoring and adjusting network settings with tools like `ethtool`, `sysctl`, and `netstat` are essential for maintaining optimal performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41083801)

- The "Linux Network Performance Ultimate Guide" is a comprehensive resource for optimizing network performance using Linux, particularly useful for those working with high-speed networks.
- A user shared a success story of building a cost-effective 10Gbps encrypted network using commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) hardware and Wireguard, significantly undercutting commercial hardware solutions.
- Discussions in the comments include practical tips, such as tuning TCP buffer sizes, and tools for automatic performance tuning, like Oracle's bpftune.

## [Windows recovery environment and bootable USB creator in 200kb](https://github.com/joshuacline/windick)

- Windows Deployment Image Customization Kit is a command shell tool designed for customizing and deploying Windows images.
- It provides a native solution for IT professionals and system administrators to streamline the deployment process.
- Tutorials and additional information are available on platforms like YouTube and Microsoft's official documentation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41083987)

- A new shell-based tool for creating a Windows recovery environment and bootable USB has been released, fitting into just 200 kilobytes.
- The tool, written as a large batch file with 3,085 lines of code, showcases impressive dedication and efficiency, especially given the availability of more modern scripting languages like PowerShell.
- The project is inspired by clockworkmod recovery for Android and aims to use "live-of-the-land" commands, meaning it has zero dependencies and works solely under Windows.

## [Crooks Bypassed Google's Email Verification to Create Workspace Accounts, Acces](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2024/07/crooks-bypassed-googles-email-verification-to-create-workspace-accounts-access-3rd-party-services/)

- Google fixed an authentication weakness that allowed criminals to bypass email verification to create Google Workspace accounts and impersonate domain holders.
- The issue was resolved within 72 hours, and additional detection measures were implemented to prevent future abuse.
- The attackers aimed to impersonate domain holders to third-party services, not to abuse Google services, and the malicious activity involved a few thousand Workspace accounts created without domain verification.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41082502)

- Attackers bypassed Google's email verification to create unauthorized Workspace accounts, leading to potential security breaches and unexpected welcome emails for unregistered domains.
- These unauthorized accounts were used to exploit "Sign in with Google" on third-party sites, causing victims difficulties in reclaiming their domains.
- The incident underscores vulnerabilities in Google's system and the risks associated with social logins, prompting calls for improvements like mandatory DNS verification.

## [Free DDNS with Cloudflare and a Cronjob](https://github.com/devrim/cloudflare-noip)

- This project provides a free alternative to paid dynamic DNS services by automating DNS record updates on Cloudflare using a free account and a cronjob.
- Users need to clone the repository, create configuration files (`keys.json` and `records.json`), and set up a cronjob or equivalent task scheduler to run the script at regular intervals.
- The script updates DNS records on Cloudflare with the machine's current IP address, making it a cost-effective solution for dynamic DNS needs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41081810)

- A GitHub project offers a free Dynamic DNS (DDNS) solution using Cloudflare and a cron job, attracting significant interest from the tech community.
- Users discuss the pros and cons of using Cloudflare for DDNS, including potential bait-and-switch tactics and limitations like mandatory TLS termination and upload restrictions.
- Alternatives and similar projects are mentioned, such as using Cloudflare tunnels, Tailscale, and other DDNS clients, highlighting the variety of solutions available for managing dynamic IP addresses.

## [Introduction to Machine Learning Interviews Book](https://huyenchip.com/ml-interviews-book/)

- The "Introduction to Machine Learning Interviews Book" provides a comprehensive guide to the ML interview process, covering roles, company types, interview formats, and question types.
- It includes over 200 knowledge questions and 30 open-ended questions, aiming to help both candidates and hiring managers understand and prepare for ML interviews.
- Authored by Chip Huyen, who has extensive experience with interviews at major tech companies and startups, the book consolidates practical insights and preparation strategies.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41083534)

- The "Introduction to Machine Learning Interviews" book by Huyen Chip is being discussed, with mixed opinions on its effectiveness for preparing for ML interviews.
- Some users suggest that the book's questions are easier compared to actual ML interviews, and others recommend the "Deep Learning Interviews" book as more engaging and representative.
- There is a debate on the relevance of using boilerplate questions from the book, with some advocating for creating personalized projects instead.

## [Sqlitefs: SQLite as a Filesystem](https://github.com/narumatt/sqlitefs)

- sqlite-fs enables Linux and MacOS users to mount a SQLite database file as a regular filesystem, facilitating file operations through a database.
- Requires the latest Rust programming language (≥ 1.38) and libfuse (Linux) or osxfuse (MacOS) for functionality.
- Supports various file operations such as creating, reading, writing, deleting files and directories, changing attributes, and handling file locks, with strict error handling.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41085856)

- SQLiteFS is a project that uses SQLite as a filesystem, drawing interest for its unique approach to file storage.
- The concept is reminiscent of Microsoft's canceled WinFS project, which aimed to use SQL Server as a filesystem.
- Despite the humor and theoretical discussions, practical applications like using SQLiteFS for in-memory operations or caching are being considered.

## [Oscar Zariski was one of the founders of modern algebraic geometry](https://boogiemath.org/meta/meta-9.html)

- Oscar Zariski (1899-1986) was a pivotal figure in modern algebraic geometry, known for his influential book "Algebraic Surfaces" and his significant contributions to the field.
- Despite starting his academic career later than usual, Zariski remained active into his eighties, with notable work on holomorphic functions and a rich academic journey through prestigious institutions.
- An interesting anecdote from his life includes nearly missing his own wedding due to being deeply engrossed in a mathematical problem, highlighting his intense dedication to mathematics.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41086060)

- Oscar Zariski is recognized as a founder of modern algebraic geometry.
- Users shared anecdotes and discussed diverse topics, including mathematician Kalle Väisälä's humorous incident and the "imagination factor," which measures time spent in real vs. imaginary worlds.
- The conversation also delved into historical and political discussions, such as the Russian Revolution and debates on communism vs. capitalism.

## [Bril: An Intermediate Language for Teaching Compilers](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/~asampson/blog/bril.html)

- Bril, the Big Red Intermediate Language, was created to simplify teaching compilers by prioritizing ease of use and simplicity over performance and code size.
- Bril programs are JSON documents, making them accessible with any programming language and easy to share.
- The Bril ecosystem has expanded with student contributions, including tools and language extensions, though its SSA (Static Single Assignment) form needs improvement.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41084318)

- Bril is an intermediate language (IL) designed for teaching compilers, developed by Cornell University.
- Discussions highlight the need for reworking Bril's Static Single Assignment (SSA) form and comparisons with other ILs like ANF (A-Normal Form) and CPS (Continuation-Passing Style).
- Some argue that existing ILs like LLVM are sufficient for educational purposes, while others emphasize Bril's unique approach to teaching compiler concepts.

## [Driving Compilers](https://fabiensanglard.net/dc/)

- The series aims to fill the gap in literature on using tools to turn programs into executables, focusing on core concepts rather than teaching a language or how to write a compiler.
- It provides reproducible steps using bintools and driver verbose mode (-v) to help readers explore beyond basic examples, assuming a Linux platform with gcc or clang compilers.
- The series is divided into five parts: Driver, cpp (pre-processor), cc (compiler), ld (linker), and Loader, offering a structured approach to understanding the compilation process.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41083077)

- The article provides an excellent introduction to the C and C++ toolchain, focusing on Linux and ELF-based platforms.
- Key clarifications include that the C++ standard library is broader than the STL, and ::operator new() is part of the runtime, not just a template.
- The article should better distinguish between the OS kernel loader and the userspace dynamic loader.

## [Learning about PCI-e: Driver and DMA](https://blog.davidv.dev/posts/pcie-driver-dma/)

- The post details the implementation of a basic PCI-e (Peripheral Component Interconnect Express) device driver, focusing on memory mapping and DMA (Direct Memory Access) operations.
- It explains the creation of a `struct pci_driver`, the setup of a character device for user-space interaction, and the use of MSI (Message Signalled Interrupts) for handling asynchronous DMA transfers.
- The post is significant for its practical guide on developing a PCI-e device driver, including code snippets and references to kernel documentation, making it valuable for new software engineers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41085713)

- The discussion centers around using an FPGA (Field-Programmable Gate Array) to build a display adapter, with a focus on PCI-e (Peripheral Component Interconnect Express) hard IP (Intellectual Property).
- Various affordable FPGA boards are recommended, including Spartan 6, Artix, Screamer PCIe Squirrel, and Litefury, which support PCIe and digital video output.
- The post also highlights resources and designs for creating video cards and mentions the potential use of Displayport Alt mode and UVC-type USB3 webcams for video output.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="SQLite: 35% Faster Than the Filesystem" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=SQLite%3A%2035%25%20Faster%20Than%20the%20Filesystem&subheading=Saturday%2C%20July%2027%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
