---
slug: '/2024/02/01'
---

# 2024-02-01

## [Infinite Craft: Create and Sort Elements of Nature with Ease](https://neal.fun/infinite-craft/)

- The concept of the app involves manipulating elements such as water, fire, wind, and earth by dragging them around.
- The app also includes a sorting feature based on time.
- This app allows users to interact with different elements and organize them based on a time-based sorting system.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39205020)

- The conversation focuses on a game or website that allows users to combine elements to create new items or concepts.
- Participants discuss their experiences with the game, the AI models used, and propose ways to improve it.
- There are differing opinions on the combinations, with some finding them nonsensical and others appreciating the creativity and novelty. Other similar games and suggestions for improving the interface are also mentioned.

## [Creating PDFs Larger than the Universe: Exploring the Limits of Adobe Acrobat](https://alexwlchan.net/2024/big-pdf/)

- The author investigates the maximum size limit for PDF documents and finds that Adobe Acrobat sets a limit of 381 kilometers by 381 kilometers.
- The author explores the internal structure of PDFs and learns how to manually edit them to create larger PDFs by changing the page size and user unit.
- However, it is noted that the user unit value is not widely used and may not have practical implications for most PDF documents. The author creates a PDF claiming to be larger than the entire universe, but it may not have any real-world significance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39210507)

- The article and comments delve into various aspects of PDF files, such as their benefits, limitations, and security concerns.
- Tangents arise regarding topics like the correct number of zeroes, distinctions between million and billion, and PDF standards.
- Discussions also touch on diverse subjects like Google Maps, printing issues on Windows, Umberto Eco's works, and the scale of the universe. The conversation concludes by comparing the size of a PDF to Germany and discussing the country's historical blindspots.

## [Y Combinator CEO's online rant prompts threats and police reports](https://missionlocal.org/2024/01/y-combinator-ceo-garry-tans-online-rant-spurs-threat-to-supe-police-reports/)

- Y Combinator CEO, Garry Tan, faced criticism for a social media post where he expressed a wish for the slow death of seven San Francisco supervisors.
- The supervisors received threatening letters at their homes, leading to two of them filing police reports.
- Tan later apologized, but this incident has ignited a conversation about the safety of public officials and the boundaries of free speech.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39205676)

- The conversation revolves around the controversial actions and statements made by Y Combinator CEO Garry Tan, including a drunken rant, offensive tweets, and threats.
- Discussions dissect the consequences of free speech, the role and responsibilities of CEOs, and the potential negative traits that can develop in them.
- The conversation also delves into political affiliations, the tech industry's image, media coverage, and the concept of stochastic terrorism, sparking debates about mandatory voting, censorship, and power dynamics within government.

## [New open source AI model leaked, could rival GPT-4](https://venturebeat.com/ai/mistral-ceo-confirms-leak-of-new-open-source-ai-model-nearing-gpt-4-performance/)

- The open source AI community is abuzz with the discovery of a leaked open source large language model (LLM) named "miqu-1-70b" from Mistral, a Parisian AI company.
- The leaked model has gained attention for its impressive performance on LLM tasks and has the potential to rival or surpass OpenAI's GPT-4.
- If the leaked model proves successful, it could pose significant competition to OpenAI's subscription tiers, although OpenAI still holds an advantage with its GPT-4 Turbo and GPT-4V.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39208213)

- The CEO of Mistral, an AI company, has acknowledged a leak of their new open-source AI model that competes with GPT-4.
- Users are discussing various quantization formats for testing and production purposes, as well as the ollama/llama.cpp program, Mistral's performance compared to OpenAI, and the use of tokens for context and output.
- The conversation also delves into the limitations of large context sizes in language models, the cost and capabilities of GPT-4 training, Mistral's market positioning, concerns about bias and evaluation in AI models, Mixtral's performance, watermarking language models, and the definition and misuse of "open-source."

## [The Far Side Comics: Daily updated classic gems of humor](https://www.thefarside.com/)

- The Far Side comics, known for their humor, are updated daily with classic selections.
- The comics cover a range of funny situations, such as awkward moments in the ant world and a nod to Alfred Hitchcock's "The Birds."
- In addition to the daily updates, the collection includes previous day's comics, comic collections, and references to other cartoonists and cartoons.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39204918)

- Participants in this discussion forum share their admiration for Gary Larson's comic strip "The Far Side" and engage in conversations about their favorite comics and the cultural significance of Larson's work.
- The discussion extends to various other topics, including Larson's recent return to drawing, his impact on paleontology, and his involvement in crossword puzzles.
- The connection between "The Far Side" and the tech industry is explored, along with the unique drawing style and humor present in Larson's characters.

## [The Sega AI Computer: Unveiling the Rare and Influential System](https://www.smspower.org/SegaAI/Index)

- The Sega AI Computer, a rare and obscure system from 1986, has become the subject of attention after the release of its roms, data dumps, scans, and photographs.
- The computer, designed for educational purposes with artificial intelligence capabilities, was primarily sold to Japanese schools and had a limited release.
- The Sega AI Computer has influenced future Sega platforms and can now be emulated through MAME. Organizations like the Game Preservation Society and SMS Power! have been instrumental in preserving and researching this system, and donations are encouraged to support ongoing preservation efforts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39206529)

- The conversation discusses multiple topics related to Sega, such as the Sega AI computer, a Sega-made projector, and nostalgia for Sega consoles.
- It explores the popularity of the Sega Master System, retro gaming hardware and software design, and the technological advancements of the Dreamcast.
- The conversation also briefly mentions the influence of gaming on technology and the AI winter of 1986.

## [Why I Moved My Blog from IPFS to a Server](https://neimanslab.org/2024-01-31/why-i-moved-my-blog-ipfs-to-server.html)

- The author explains their decision to move their blog from IPFS (InterPlanetary File System) to a traditional server.
- They faced challenges with IPFS, including a reliance on gateways instead of personal nodes and difficulties in updating and making content available in browsers.
- Despite still believing in IPFS's potential, the author found that it did not meet their personal blogging needs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39208673)

- IPFS (InterPlanetary File System) is a topic of discussion in app development ecosystems, with users praising its stability and reliability for hosting files.
- Some concerns are raised regarding resource consumption and scalability issues with IPFS.
- The conversation also delves into alternative decentralized storage solutions and the limitations of blockchain for name resolution, highlighting the benefits and challenges of using decentralized technologies for hosting websites and sharing files.

## [Macaroons: Enhanced Security and Flexibility in Token-based Authentication](https://fly.io/blog/macaroons-escalated-quickly/)

- Macaroons are a type of security token system that uses HMAC-signed bearer tokens with claims called caveats to restrict authorization.
- The ordering of caveats is not important, and all caveats must pass for a request to be successful.
- Macaroons address the vulnerabilities of simple bearer tokens by allowing for user-editable and JIT-generated tokens.
- They can be implemented in permission systems for public cloud platforms and used for first and third-party caveats.
- Code implementation for creating and verifying tokens with third-party caveats is also discussed.
- Macaroons are used in platforms like Fly.io and in token-based authentication systems for worker servers.
- Overall, Macaroons offer enhanced security, flexibility, and the ability to stack different identity providers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39204314)

- Macaroons are a type of authentication and authorization mechanism used in various systems.
- The conversation highlights the advantages and disadvantages of using macaroons, as well as their limitations and appropriateness for different problem domains.
- Google holds patents for macaroons, leading to skepticism about their claims of not litigating open source uses.
- Implementation and challenges of using macaroons are discussed, along with alternative authentication token systems.
- The conversation briefly mentions the confusion between macaroons (the authentication mechanism) and macarons (the culinary treat) and their respective origins.
- Other topics covered include token security, access control, documentation, and the Fly platform.

## [ChatGPT in Technical Interviews: A Warning Against Cheating](https://interviewing.io/blog/how-hard-is-it-to-cheat-with-chatgpt-in-technical-interviews)

- An experiment examined the impact of using ChatGPT in technical interviews on cheating.
- The study discovered that candidates using ChatGPT could cheat undetected, raising concerns in the industry.
- Original and customized interview questions were found to be effective in preventing cheating, and companies are encouraged to create engaging questions that assess real engineering skills.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39206731)

- AI, specifically ChatGPT, is being used in coding job interviews, sparking a debate on its fairness and effectiveness.
- Some argue it's dishonest or cheating, while others see it as a practical and honest approach.
- The discussion centers around whether AI tools can accurately evaluate problem-solving skills and whether external references and open-source projects should be allowed.

## [DeepSeek Coder: AI Model That Writes Code Effortlessly](https://deepseekcoder.github.io/)

- DeepSeek Coder is an AI language model designed for code and natural language processing in both English and Chinese.
- It comes in various model sizes and has demonstrated strong performance on coding benchmarks.
- DeepSeek Coder is open source and can be used freely for research and commercial purposes, and instructions for using it can be found on their website.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39209814)

- The discussion centers around the use of AI coding tools and services like ChatGPT, Bard, ollama, and DeepSeek for tasks like code mapping, refactoring, and bug tracking.
- Some participants have had positive experiences, while others have encountered limitations, prompting suggestions like using Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) with a Langchain setup or copilot for repetitive tasks.
- The future of AI in coding is explored, highlighting concerns about correctness and the importance of human expertise. The scalability and challenges of using API specifications, code generation models, and different AI models are also discussed. Comparisons are made between various AI-powered coding tools and services based on performance, ease of use, and specific capabilities.

## [RavenDB's ACID Transactions Under Scrutiny: Inconsistent and Confusing Behavior Revealed](https://jepsen.io/analyses/ravendb-6.0.2)

- RavenDB, a distributed document database, has raised concerns about its support for ACID transactions and its consistency in meeting those guarantees.
- Testing has revealed safety errors, including lost updates, fractured reads, and consistency model violations, raising questions about the behavior of transactions and sessions in RavenDB.
- Users are advised to reassess their transactions, conduct tests, and ensure that application invariants are maintained. RavenDB should provide clearer information on their safety properties and remove false claims from their marketing materials. Further research is needed to clarify the boundaries of transactions and sessions, as well as concerns about fault tolerance, secondary indices, and cross-shard transactions. Network partitions may impact RavenDB's performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39204622)

- Users of RavenDB have reported issues with stale reads, lost writes, and random data disappearance, prompting some to switch to other databases like SQL Server or MartenDb.
- The discussion touches on topics such as replication, atomic commitment, and concurrency control in databases, with the author suggesting that relying solely on replication may not be the best solution.
- The lack of safety culture and engineering discipline seen in the aviation industry is compared to the database field, raising concerns about the correctness, durability, and complexity of databases like RavenDB.

## [Comcast to Drop "Xfinity 10G Network" Brand Name Following Misleading Claims](https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2024/01/comcast-to-stop-calling-entire-network-10g-as-name-is-ruled-misleading/)

- Comcast will stop using the "Xfinity 10G Network" brand name following an appeal loss that found it to be misleading.
- "10G" refers to potential 10Gbps broadband connections, faster than current cable networks.
- The National Advertising Review Board (NARB) ruled that Comcast's claim of superior speed compared to 5G networks was unsupported, highlighting confusion and countering the hype around 5G wireless networks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39209469)

- Comcast has been criticized for deceptive claims about its "10G Network" and has agreed to discontinue them.
- Customers and critics have accused Comcast of poor service and false promises, with complaints ranging from billing problems to difficulties canceling services.
- The lack of competition in the US broadband market has raised concerns about high prices and limited availability of high-speed options. Some suggest community-based telecommunication companies as a potential solution for faster and more affordable internet services.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Infinite Craft: Create and Sort Elements of Nature with Ease" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Infinite%20Craft%3A%20Create%20and%20Sort%20Elements%20of%20Nature%20with%20Ease&subheading=Thursday%2C%20February%201%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
