---
slug: '/2024/02/08'
---

# 2024-02-08

## [John Walker, Founder of Autodesk, Passes Away](https://scanalyst.fourmilab.ch/t/john-walker-1949-2024/4305)

- John was a computer scientist and electrical engineer who passed away on February 2, 2024.
- He worked at Case Western Reserve University's computing center and later founded Autodesk.
- John's journey and work can be explored through his book, The Autodesk File, and his website, Fourmilab.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39297185)

- John Walker, the founder of Autodesk, has passed away, leaving behind a legacy in software development and his book "The Hackers Diet".
- Commenters discuss the early years of Autodesk and the shift towards a more business-focused industry.
- Walker's impact on the tech community is recognized, and there is conversation about CICO for weight loss, tracking progress, and the importance of exercise.

## [Building a Python Search Engine with Asynchronous Code and the BM25 Algorithm](https://www.alexmolas.com/2024/02/05/a-search-engine-in-80-lines.html)

- The author shares their experience of building a search engine from scratch using Python to address the issue of small websites being hard to find on search engines.
- The search engine consists of components like the crawler, inverted index, ranker, and interface.
- The author improved the speed of the crawler by using asynchronous code with the asyncio library.
- They implemented the BM25 ranking algorithm in their search engine and provide examples in their search engine class.
- A small FastAPI app was built to interface with the search engine, although some advanced features are missing.
- Future plans include adding semantic search capabilities and encouraging others to add an RSS feed to their blogs.
- Through this project, the author gained a better understanding of Solr and the benefits of asynchronous code.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39293050)

- The summary highlights a conversation about a search engine built with only 80 lines of Python code.
- The discussion covers various topics such as phrase matching challenges, the use of RSS feeds for gathering information, and preferences for variable naming.
- It also touches upon the importance of lines of code, adding fuzzy-search functionality, recommendation engines, tools for data processing, scalability challenges, and the author's insights on file structure understanding.

## [Podcasting's Radical Triumph: Wherever You Get Your Podcasts](https://www.anildash.com//2024/02/06/wherever-you-get-podcasts/)

- Podcasting is an open and empowering technology that is not controlled by any one company, allowing creators to retain ownership and control over their content and audience.
- Unlike platforms like YouTube or TikTok, podcasting prevents surveillance-based advertising and reintroduces advertising inefficiencies, which can benefit creators and create a healthier media ecosystem.
- Podcasting showcases that an open web can thrive and inspire other unowned and decentralized systems in the technology and media industry.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39287163)

## [Disney to Partner with Epic Games in $1.5B Investment for New Gaming Universe](https://www.cnbc.com/2024/02/07/disney-to-take-1point5-billion-stake-in-epic-games-maker-of-fortnite.html)

- Disney is investing $1.5 billion to acquire an equity stake in Epic Games, the developer of the popular game Fortnite.
- This marks Disney's largest foray into the gaming industry and signals a strategic move to expand its presence in the gaming world.
- The partnership between Disney and Epic Games will involve the development of new games and the creation of an entertainment universe that incorporates content from Disney, Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars, and other franchises.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39294799)

- Disney is investing $1.5 billion in Epic Games to target the 13-25 age group, aiming to boost their presence in that market.
- Collaboration skins in Fortnite are expected to generate additional revenue for both companies, although there are concerns about potential uncool collaborations.
- The partnership raises discussions about the potential for Epic Games to become a virtual world like Disney World, as well as the ongoing legal battle between Epic Games and Apple.

## [SerenityOS: Andreas Kling's Redemption Journey through Coding](https://corecursive.com/serenity-os-with-andreas-kling/)

- Andreas Kling developed SerenityOS as a personal therapy project and to occupy his time after rehab.
- The operating system draws inspiration from Windows 2000 and has received favorable feedback from users.
- Kling embraces transparency and accountability by sharing his coding progress on YouTube and encouraging contributions from others.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39286638)

- The discussion covers a wide range of topics related to operating system development, including creating a toy operating system and the need for improved filesystem semantics and unified APIs.
- It explores advancements and innovation in file systems and databases, as well as the challenges of accessing and reserving resources in a system.
- The conversation also touches on the benefits of educational OS projects, the usability and nostalgia of older operating systems, and the potential for transactional semantics in filesystems.

## [Unison Cloud: A Comprehensive Platform for Hosting, Deployment, and Testing](https://www.unison.cloud/)

- Unison Cloud provides a range of features for web service hosting, inter-service calls, deployments, storage, log management, batch compute jobs, secrets and config management, and local testing.
- Users can deploy HTTP and WebSocket services quickly and make inter-service calls without dealing with serialization or networking complications.
- Unison Cloud offers stable URLs for named services, statically typed storage access, log viewing and streaming in the UI, batch job execution, secrets and config uploading and access, and easy local testing of services.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39290982)

- Unison is a new programming language and API designed to address scaling and distributed system challenges, but it may not be suitable for everyone.
- Unison offers benefits like perfect incremental compilation cache and content-addressed caching for testing.
- There is interest and admiration for Unison's unique features and approach to programming, but some concerns exist about relying on a proprietary solution.

## [Chinese websites posing as local news outlets spread disinformation and attacks: PAPERWALL campaign](https://citizenlab.ca/2024/02/paperwall-chinese-websites-posing-as-local-news-outlets-with-pro-beijing-content/)

- A network called PAPERWALL, consisting of 123 Chinese websites posing as local news outlets in 30 countries, is spreading pro-Beijing disinformation and launching personal attacks.
- The campaign is carried out by Shenzhen Haimaiyunxiang Media, a Chinese PR firm, and the websites scrape and share content from local media, press releases, and Chinese state media while disguising their political motives with commercial content.
- PAPERWALL is connected to Tencent Computer Systems, a major Chinese corporation, and operates through the Tencent Cloud service, targeting individuals and countries through conspiracy theories and intensified attacks. This demonstrates China's increasing involvement in aggressive influence operations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39288231)

## [Introducing ChatGPT 4: Enhanced AI Prompt System](https://pastebin.com/vnxJ7kQk)

- The text covers different sections discussing Python, Dalle, and Browser tools, as well as guidelines for generating images and using the browser tool for search and quotation purposes.
- It includes instructions on providing comprehensive and coherent responses and highlights specific policies to follow.
- There are also user comments and an advertisement included in the text.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39289350)

- Discussions centered around various topics related to AI language models, including their limitations, biases, and concerns about copyright.
- Participants expressed the need for transparency, accountability, and improved performance in AI models.
- The impact of AI on society, such as storytelling, career choices, and accessibility of information, was also a topic of discussion, highlighting ongoing debates and concerns surrounding AI technology.

## [The Appendix: More Than Meets the Eye](https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2024/02/02/1228474984/appendix-function-appendicitis-gut-health)

- Recent research has revealed that the appendix, previously considered a useless organ, actually plays important roles in supporting the immune system and housing beneficial gut bacteria.
- Appendicitis, the inflammation of the appendix, is more prevalent in regions with low-fiber diets and may be influenced by the hygiene hypothesis.
- Efforts are underway to develop alternative treatments for appendicitis to avoid surgical removal, as studies have shown potential health benefits in keeping the appendix. This highlights the significance of studying small anatomical details and continuously uncovering variations and functions within the human body.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39294346)

- The discussions revolve around the role and significance of the human appendix.
- Opinions vary regarding its purpose, including its embryological significance and its role in supporting the immune system.
- Debates focus on the consequences of appendectomy, impact on immunity and gut flora, and the existential question of a higher power.

## [Toyota Invests $1.3B in Kentucky Factory for Electric SUV and Battery Production](https://apnews.com/article/toyota-investment-georgetown-kentucky-factory-9d8142fb9d92ead0f895dd6f3d9fe215)

- Toyota is investing $1.3 billion in its factory complex in Kentucky to produce a three-row electric SUV for the US market.
- The money will also be used for future electric vehicle production, including assembling battery cells for other EVs.
- The investment will not result in the creation of new jobs at the complex.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39287641)

- Toyota is investing $1.3 billion in its Kentucky factory to produce electric vehicles and battery packs, driven by factors such as lower wages and attractive tax breaks.
- Discussions on the thread cover topics like poverty rates, social services, and educational inequalities in various states.
- Other subjects include Tesla's leasing experience, the success of Toyota's hybrid vehicles, and the environmental implications of electric vehicles. Additionally, there is a debate concerning government support for manufacturing and its impact on the solar industry, along with criticisms of subsidies and tax incentives for companies.

## [YouTube Developers Successfully Launch Plan to Retire Internet Explorer 6](https://blog.chriszacharias.com/a-conspiracy-to-kill-ie6)

- A team of web developers at YouTube devised a plan to encourage users of Internet Explorer 6 (IE6) to upgrade to a modern browser due to the numerous issues it caused.
- They implemented a small banner on YouTube that urged IE6 users to upgrade, resulting in a 50% decline in the IE6 user base on the platform within one month.
- Other Google properties also adopted similar banners, leading to a significant decrease in global IE6 traffic. The team, however, decided to refrain from executing such a plan in the future.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39294406)

- The discussion explores different aspects of web browsers, such as the impact of Internet Explorer (IE) and the rivalry between IE and Netscape.
- It discusses the dominance of WebKit for rendering, the challenges faced by developers, and the comparison of browsers like Safari and Chrome.
- Efforts to phase out IE6 and the potential control of large platforms, particularly Google's tactics, are also mentioned. The conversation provides insight into the evolution and challenges of web development and browser compatibility.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="John Walker, Founder of Autodesk, Passes Away" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=John%20Walker%2C%20Founder%20of%20Autodesk%2C%20Passes%20Away&subheading=Thursday%2C%20February%208%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
