---
slug: '/2024/02/13'
---

# 2024-02-13

## [Cloudflare triumphs over patent troll Sable in trial](https://blog.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-defeats-patent-troll-sable-at-trial)

- Cloudflare has emerged victorious in a trial against patent trolls Sable IP and Sable Networks.
- The jury concluded that Cloudflare did not infringe on the asserted patent and declared Sable's patent claims invalid.
- The win can be attributed to the efforts of Cloudflare's legal team, external counsel, and participants in the Project Jengo initiative, which rewards individuals for providing evidence that invalidates patent trolls' claims.
- Cloudflare's success in invalidating parts of three Sable patents has limited their ability to file lawsuits against other companies.
- The case underscores the high costs and risks associated with patent litigation and sends a warning to patent trolls that Cloudflare will not be easily intimidated.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39344956)

- The discussion covers multiple aspects of the patent system, such as patent quality, patent trolls, software patents, intellectual property taxation, patent duration, and the role of patents in innovation.
- Suggestions for improvement include incentivizing companies to defend against invalid patents, increasing funding for the patent office, penalizing bad faith patent filings, and addressing the issue of companies creating shell entities.
- There are debates about the purpose and effectiveness of patents, with some advocating for their elimination and others emphasizing their role in protecting inventors and promoting development. The impact of patents on different industries, like pharmaceuticals and technology, is also discussed.

## [AMD Funds Open-Source CUDA Implementation for AMD GPUs on ROCm](https://www.phoronix.com/review/radeon-cuda-zluda)

- AMD has financially supported the development of an open-source drop-in CUDA implementation called ZLUDA, which enables NVIDIA CUDA applications to run on AMD Radeon GPUs without modifying the source code.
- Originally developed for Intel graphics, ZLUDA has been adapted for use on AMD GPUs, but it is not completely fail-safe and lacks full support for NVIDIA OptiX.
- The open-source release of ZLUDA allows the identification of the actual Radeon graphics card string, rather than the generic "Graphics Device" label.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39344815)

- The discussion revolves around AMD's attempts to compete with NVIDIA in the GPU market, mainly in machine learning and software compatibility.
- Concerns are raised about the overwhelming dominance of CUDA and the difficulties in emulating it, emphasizing the need for open standards.
- The conversation also addresses AMD's software and driver support challenges and emphasizes the significance of operating systems in the AI field. A general call is made for increased accessibility, collaboration, and competition in the industry.

## [Billions stolen in US wage theft, disproportionately impacting marginalized workers](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2023/jun/15/wage-theft-us-workers-employees)

- Workers in the US experience over $50 billion in wage theft annually, making it the most prevalent form of theft in the country.
- Wage theft disproportionately affects lower-wage workers, women, people of color, and immigrant workers.
- Major companies like Amazon and Walmart, as well as construction contractors, have been implicated in wage theft violations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39344770)

- The article explores wage theft and payment issues in academia, addressing concerns about late payments and mistreatment of workers.
- It discusses the pay and responsibilities of CEOs, highlighting the unequal power dynamics between employers and employees.
- The role of unions, regulations in free markets, the impact of cartels on competition, and the landlord-tenant relationship are also discussed, emphasizing the need for effective regulation and worker protections.

## [Demystifying the Kalman Filter: Understanding and Implementing the Algorithm in Real-World Projects](https://thekalmanfilter.com/kalman-filter-explained-simply/)

- The article presents the concept of the Kalman Filter, an algorithm used to estimate system parameters.
- It explores the inputs, outputs, and applications of the Kalman Filter in fields like object tracking, weight estimation, and guidance and control systems.
- The article provides a comprehensive overview of the Kalman Filter algorithm, explaining each step in the process, emphasizing the importance of initialization and reinitialization, and discussing the computation of the Kalman Gain and the estimation of system state and error covariance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39343746)

- The Kalman filter is widely used in various fields like robotics, economics, and radar systems.
- Some participants express frustration with the lack of accessible resources and confusion caused by mathematical notation.
- Different perspectives on the use of single-letter variables versus meaningful variable names are discussed.

## [Stable Audio Demo: High-Fidelity Stereo Music Generation and Evaluations](https://stability-ai.github.io/stable-audio-demo/)

- The website "stable-audio-demo" may not work correctly on Safari, and it is advised to use Google Chrome for optimal performance.
- The website offers code and tools related to Stable Audio, a model that can produce variable-length and long-form stereo music at a 44.1kHz sampling rate.
- Users can explore examples of generated stereo music and sound effects prompts on the website, along with comparisons to other cutting-edge models. Additionally, an evaluation of an autoencoder's audio fidelity capabilities is provided through reconstructions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39354138)

- The discussion thread covers topics such as taxing revenue from generative AI for the arts, copyright concerns in the Stable Audio project, and the impact of licensing fees on open-source machine learning.
- Copyright laws and ethical implications in relation to AI training data are also discussed.
- There are discussions on alternative browsers, AI-generated music, the limitations and potential improvements in AI music generation, and observations on the Suno.ai music model.

## [Nvidia Surpasses Amazon and Google, Becomes Most Valuable Tech Company](https://www.forbes.com/sites/dereksaul/2024/02/12/nvidia-is-now-more-valuable-than-amazon-and-google/)

- Nvidia has surpassed Amazon and Alphabet in market value, thanks to its strong position in the AI market and impressive financial results.
- Nvidia's stock has grown over 17,000% in the past decade, making it the best-performing stock on the S&P 500.
- Analysts predict further upside potential for Nvidia's stock, as the company is expected to report its third consecutive quarter of record sales and profits.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39353325)

- Nvidia's dominance in the GPU market is a major topic of discussion, raising concerns about monopolistic practices.
- Various debates revolve around the importance of competition and the potential for anti-trust violations.
- The role of developers, profitability of GPU sales, and challenges faced by rival companies like AMD are also part of the conversation.

## [macOS workaround enables more app icons without hiding under MacBook Pro notch](https://flaky.build/built-in-workaround-for-applications-hiding-under-the-macbook-pro-notch)

- A built-in workaround in macOS allows users to adjust whitespace settings in the menu bar to display more application icons and prevent them from being hidden under the notch on new MacBook Pro models.
- By using Terminal.app and executing specific commands, users can modify the padding and spacing in the menu bar. A value of 6 proved effective in accommodating more icons.
- It's important to note that continuously adding more apps to the menu bar will still cause the same issue, and users can revert back to the original settings if desired.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39343919)

- The presence of the notch on MacBook Pro laptops is a topic of discussion and debate in the tech community.
- Some users dislike the size of the notch and suggest alternative placements for the webcam, while others see it as bonus display space.
- There are debates about the practicality and design compromises of the notch, as well as discussions about potential future solutions like under-screen webcam technology. Some users appreciate the larger screen it allows for, while others criticize Apple for selling a flawed design and the need for third-party solutions.

## [Amazon Prime Video Removes Dolby Vision and Atmos Support from Ad Tier Without Notice](https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2024/02/prime-video-cuts-dolby-vision-atmos-support-from-ad-tier-and-didnt-tell-subs/)

- Amazon Prime Video has quietly removed support for Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos from its ad-supported tier, leaving subscribers unaware of the change.
- Users opting for the ad-supported tier are now restricted to HDR10+ and Dolby Digital 5.1, potentially to reduce licensing fees paid to Dolby Laboratories and promote HDR10+ as a no-cost alternative.
- This is not the first time Amazon has made changes to its Dolby features, further frustrating customers who are feeling the shift towards streaming services resemble traditional cable TV. Amazon has not given a reason for the removal.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39351023)

- There are ongoing discussions and debates about various topics related to Amazon Prime Video and Amazon's services.
- Topics include the removal of Dolby Vision and Atmos support, the addition of ads on the streaming service, customer satisfaction, market segmentation strategies, soundbars, delivery services, cancellation of Prime subscriptions, satellite radio, profitability of Amazon Prime Video, original content, presentation of content, and the political nature of TV shows.
- Opinions among users differ, with some expressing satisfaction and others expressing dissatisfaction with different aspects of Amazon's services.

## [The True Motivation Behind Max Planck's Quantum Physics: Debunking the Ultraviolet Myth](http://www.arxiv.org/abs/2402.03405)

- This paper debunks a popular myth in quantum physics about Max Planck's motivation for introducing quantum physics.
- The authors argue that the commonly told story of the ultraviolet catastrophe is incorrect and that Planck was actually focused on deriving the law for blackbody radiation.
- Planck used statistical mechanics to calculate the entropy of atomic oscillators, highlighting the need for presenting the true historical development of quantum physics.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39345618)

- The discussion covers various topics in quantum physics, including the Ultraviolet Catastrophe and Max Planck's discovery of energy quantization.
- Participants debate the accuracy of information in textbooks and YouTube videos, as well as the challenges of teaching differential equations and understanding historical scientific debates.
- The conversation highlights the need for a nuanced approach to teaching science and emphasizes the value of studying the history of science as a distinct subject.

## [Neural Networks Unveil Beautiful Fractals in Training Process](https://sohl-dickstein.github.io/2024/02/12/fractal.html)

- The author discovers a connection between fractals and neural network training, revealing that the boundary between successful and unsuccessful training exhibits a fractal structure.
- Adjusting hyperparameters, like the learning rate, has an impact on the training process, with the best-performing hyperparameters typically found near the convergence-divergence boundary.
- Fractal patterns emerge when zooming in on specific training configurations, due to the repeated iteration of functions and the occurrence of bifurcation boundaries. Neural network-generated fractals differ from those produced by low order polynomials in that they appear more organic and lack obvious symmetries.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39349992)

- Neural network training can produce visually appealing fractals, but these results do not accurately reflect real-world deep learning due to the use of extremely high learning rates.
- A study examines the boundary between stable and divergent training in neural networks when generating fractals, but its practical implications are limited.
- The article emphasizes the need for careful selection of learning rates and questions the effectiveness of meta-learning approaches. Additionally, it highlights the significance of choosing appropriate step sizes for weight updates during the process of generating fractals using neural networks.
- The conversation also delves into topics such as chaotic behavior, fractal patterns in mathematical and neural network models, photonic neural networks, and the potential of non-linear elements.
- Overall, the article highlights the enjoyment of exploring neural network training and stresses the importance of optimizing hyperparameters.

## [FCC requires telcos to disclose personal info breaches](https://www.theregister.com/2024/02/12/fcc_gets_tough_on_telcos/)

- The FCC has introduced new reporting requirements for telcos in the US, giving them a seven-day deadline to report security breaches to the FCC and the FBI/US Secret Service.
- Telcos will no longer have to wait seven days to notify consumers of breaches and will now be required to report a wider range of data leaks.
- The updated rules, which include "inadvertent access, use, or disclosure of customer information," will take effect on March 13.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39349389)

- The FCC has introduced new regulations mandating telecommunication companies to notify customers when their personal information has been compromised.
- Critics argue that these rules are insufficient in addressing the larger issue of data breaches and fail to hold companies responsible for inadequate customer data protection.
- Some speculate that the FCC's actions may be due to incompetence or undue influence from private industry.

## [Philosopher Daniel C. Dennett on the Value of Collaboration and Questioning Beliefs](https://behavioralscientist.org/ive-been-thinking-daniel-dennett-what-if-im-wrong/)

- Philosopher Daniel C. Dennett believes in seeking input from others to understand complex concepts, relying on trusted colleagues to explain difficult articles or books.
- He involves students in the editing process of his books, appreciating their critical feedback and encouraging risk-taking in research and writing.
- Dennett highlights the benefits of exploring alternative viewpoints, using the example of the Discovery Institute's research facility to disprove evolution. He emphasizes the importance of humility, questioning one's beliefs, and collaboration in intellectual pursuits.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39351195)

- The conversation covers a diverse range of topics such as argument by analogy, the role of formal logic and emotions in shaping worldviews, and the challenges of changing opinions.
- It also explores the lack of factual information in public discussions, the use of weasel words and anonymous sources, and the concept of "best practice" in problem-solving.
- The participants discuss the meaning of "not even wrong," the difficulty in understanding different belief systems, and even touch on the existence of God. The conversation emphasizes the intricacies and complexity of these subjects.

## [US Rail Safety Legislation Stalled a Year After East Palestine Ohio Disaster](https://www.wlbt.com/2024/02/02/rail-safety-legislation-still-stalled-one-year-after-east-palestine-disaster/)

- Proposed legislation aimed at improving rail safety and holding rail companies accountable in Ohio has stalled due to opposition from the rail industry.
- Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur and Senator Sherrod Brown blame the rail industry for prioritizing profits over public safety.
- Issues such as crew staffing mandates, inspection requirements, and blocked crossings are still unresolved, prompting Kaptur to call on President Biden and Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg to address systematic rail problems and allocate infrastructure funding for rail safety improvements.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39349366)

- The discussions cover a range of topics including rail safety legislation, political issues, transportation infrastructure, and corporate influence in the rail industry.
- There is debate about the effectiveness of regulation in improving railway safety and the role of unions and government ownership in the industry.
- Concerns about the influence of corporations in elections and potential corruption in the legislative process are also mentioned.

## [The Reliability and Cheers of Zigbee and Z-Wave in My Smart Home](https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2024/02/i-was-wrong-to-ignore-zigbee-and-z-wave-theyre-the-best-part-of-my-smart-home/)

- The author acknowledges their mistake of overlooking Zigbee and Z-Wave technology in their smart home setup and praises their reliability compared to other standards.
- They highlight Philips Hue bulbs as an example of a device that consistently and seamlessly operates on its own network.
- The author also shares a positive experience reviewing the Homey Pro hub, which utilizes Zigbee and Z-Wave technology.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39344786)

- The discussion revolves around the pros and cons of using Zigbee, Z-Wave, WiFi, Thread, and Matter for smart home devices.
- Users share their experiences and opinions on reliability, interoperability, compatibility, and privacy concerns associated with the different protocols and devices.
- Important factors such as mesh networking, battery life, and local control are also discussed, but there is no unanimous agreement among users as their preferences and experiences with each technology vary.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Cloudflare triumphs over patent troll Sable in trial" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Cloudflare%20triumphs%20over%20patent%20troll%20Sable%20in%20trial&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20February%2013%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
