---
slug: '/2024/02/17'
---

# 2024-02-17

## [Designing APIs for Consistent Inert Behavior](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/oldnewthing/20240216-00/?p=109409)

- Designing APIs to handle situations where certain functionalities are unsupported is crucial for maintaining consistency in transitions.
- Implementing inert behavior in APIs is essential for ensuring developers are not confused and aligning with documentation.
- Emphasizing the predictability and consistency of API behavior, even when inactive, is vital for effective usage.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39401598)

- Microsoft is focusing on maintaining compatibility with older software through emulators and third-party software.
- The discussion involves error handling practices in software development, emphasizing user-friendly error messages and the challenges of graceful error handling.
- Debates revolve around error handling in Xbox and Windows platforms, managing backward compatibility, and the complexities of error handling in programming languages to ensure customer trust, platform stability, and a seamless user experience.

## [Essential Git Config Options for Productive Development](https://jvns.ca/blog/2024/02/16/popular-git-config-options/)

- The article explores Git configuration options favored by Mastodon users, like pull.ff, pull.rebase, and merge.conflictstyle, alongside rebase.autosquash, push.default, and init.defaultBranch main.
- It provides guidance on configuring these options, offers insights on managing diverged branches, resolving merge conflicts, and optimizing productivity with .gitignore settings and branch naming conventions.
- Emphasizing data integrity and efficiency in Git usage, the article promotes staying informed about default changes, emphasizes seeking advice, and discusses the author's Git configurations and future topics like git aliases.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39400352)

- The discussion delves into different Git setups and choices, such as avoiding CRLF files, creating aliases, configuring SSH, and naming branches.
- Users explore ways to enhance workflows, leverage aliases, utilize telemetry, configure editors, and transition from "master" to "main" as the primary branch name.
- The discourse covers preferences for diff and merge tools and stresses the significance of maintaining consistent branch names to boost productivity and efficiency in Git operations.

## [Plastic Industry Deceived Public on Recycling, Facing Legal Action](https://www.euronews.com/green/2024/02/16/plastic-industry-knew-recycling-was-a-farce-for-decades-yet-deceived-the-public-report-rev)

- The plastic industry has known for years that recycling plastic was not effective but engaged in deceptive marketing campaigns, as per the Center for Climate Integrity Research report.
- Around nine percent of the global plastic waste is recycled each year, highlighting the importance of recycling at home despite the industry challenges.
- Legal action against the plastic industry for consumer fraud and pollution is being suggested in the report to hold producers accountable for their deception and the resulting environmental damage.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39402917)

- The plastic industry has long known that recycling is not an efficient solution.
- Industry insights and discussions regarding this issue are available on news.ycombinator.com.

## [Paying developers for open source work is crucial](https://jacobian.org/2024/feb/16/paying-maintainers-is-good/)

- The author emphasizes the importance of paying individuals to work on open source projects for sustainability, defining open source as software that can be read, modified, and released under specific conditions.
- They highlight the insufficient sustainable funding available for these projects, stressing the necessity for maintainers to have a means of livelihood.
- Criticizing the stigma around maintainers seeking compensation, the author suggests supporting any form of payment as a positive step towards sustainability and acknowledges the efforts to make a living from open source work.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39402101)

- The article delves into open-source licenses, funding debates, value of paid contributors, and challenges in preserving open-source software integrity.
- Emphasizes the evolving tech community viewpoints and the necessity for clear licensing definitions to curb debates.
- Proposed solutions include "quasi-open-source" licenses, dual licensing, prioritizing user interests, and societal well-being over commercial gains in open source.

## [Air Canada to Compensate Customer Misled by Chatbot](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2024/feb/16/air-canada-chatbot-lawsuit)

- Air Canada must compensate a customer who was misled by its chatbot into purchasing a full-price ticket instead of a bereavement fare.
- The tribunal ruled in favor of the customer, emphasizing that the airline is accountable for all information, even that generated by the chatbot, on its website.
- This case highlights concerns about the supervision of chat tools within companies and the need for accuracy and accountability in automated systems.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39404364)

- Air Canada was mandated to compensate a customer who was deceived by the airline's chatbot, showcasing the potential risks of automated customer service.
- The incident was previously debated on the news aggregator platform Hacker News, highlighting the interest in the intersection of technology and consumer rights.

## [German credit agency SCHUFA accused of GDPR violations](https://noyb.eu/en/german-credit-agency-earns-millions-through-unlawful-customer-manipulation)

- SCHUFA, a German credit agency, is accused of manipulating customers unlawfully and profiting from selling their data.
- Customers are prevented from accessing their data for free, as mandated by GDPR, and misled into buying paid products, violating GDPR rules.
- Complaints have been filed against SCHUFA for breaching data protection laws and engaging in misleading practices.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39395329)

- The discussion delves into various issues such as high taxes, healthcare systems, credit agencies, and renting practices in Germany and other countries, highlighting concerns about the negative impacts of high taxes and the limitations of tax-funded services.
- Credit agencies like Schufa face scrutiny for assessing creditworthiness for renting, with raised concerns about privacy, accuracy, and transparency in the process.
- Debates include comparing healthcare quality, costs, and accessibility between Europe and the US, emphasizing the effectiveness of government services, competition in service provision, and the balance between taxation and public benefits.

## [Fake Traffic Surge on X During Super Bowl 2024](https://mashable.com/article/x-twitter-elon-musk-bots-fake-traffic)

- The 2024 Super Bowl became the most-watched event in U.S. TV history, driving substantial activity to Elon Musk's platform X.
- Despite the surge, cybersecurity firm CHEQ reported a staggering 75.85% of visits to advertisers' sites on X during the Super Bowl as fake traffic, surpassing issues seen on Facebook, Instagram, and TikTok.
- CHEQ's data suggests a worsening bot problem on X post its acquisition by Elon Musk, compounded by challenges like hate speech and content moderation concerns, affecting relationships with advertisers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39402876)

- The discussion delves into social media platform issues, notably Twitter, under Elon Musk's ownership, discussing fake traffic, bots, blue check elitism, and moderation challenges.
- Users showcase varied reactions to Musk's influence, with some lauding the changes while others voice criticism.
- Fraud, advertising, user behavior, and the quest for a secure and trustworthy online space are highlighted topics in the conversation.

## [Setting Up Guix on Framework 13 AMD: Challenges and Solutions](https://wingolog.org/archives/2024/02/16/guix-on-the-framework-13-amd)

- The author details the challenges faced when setting up a new Framework 13 AMD laptop with Guix, focusing on firmware and wifi issues during the operating system installation.
- They reflect on free firmware and critique the Free Software Foundation's stance on firmware limitations while providing a comprehensive guide on successfully installing Guix, which involves adjusting kernel and firmware settings.
- The author also addresses scaling issues on Wayland, emphasizing smooth transitions for non-native apps, alongside commenting on minor bugs like reboot hangs, highlighting the user-repairable nature and build quality of the device. They plan future improvements for Bluetooth and fingerprint reader functionality.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39395474)

- The discussion delves into scalability challenges of non-native Wayland apps in GNOME on Linux, drawing comparisons with Windows' backward compatibility.
- Potential solutions for fractional scaling in GTK and old Qt5 software are explored, along with features of the GUIX package manager overlay system.
- The conversation also analyzes the benefits and drawbacks of Guix and NixOS in managing system and package states while addressing issues like Wayland fractional scaling clarity and GUI scaling across different windowing systems.

## [Exploring Spatial Computing with Apple's Vision Pro](https://willem.com/blog/2024-02-16_vision-pro/)

- The blog post explores the author's experience with Apple's Vision Pro for Spatial Computing, projecting virtual objects into the real world for interactive experiences.
- It highlights the Vision Pro's potential for work, immersive experiences, and deep work, emphasizing its natural interaction model and ability to create a portable multi-monitor setup.
- The author expresses excitement for further exploring the spatial capabilities of the Vision Pro, indicating a promising future for immersive technology.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39403935)

- Users discuss experiences with tech products like the AVP headset, Apple Studio display, and VR headsets such as Meta Quest 2 and PSVR 2, sharing mixed reviews on their practicality and functionality.
- Debates focus on the future of technology, Apple products' appeal, and the potential influence of VR on conventional devices, while also addressing concerns like eye strain and text legibility. Users emphasize the need for improvements in comfort and functionality.
- Opinions vary among users based on personal preferences and specific requirements for tech products, highlighting the importance of ongoing innovation in the industry.

## [Driftmania: Open Source PICO-8 Racing Game](https://frenchie14.itch.io/driftmania)

- The author dedicated spare time to develop a racing game in PICO-8, a vintage console with stringent constraints, and shared the source code on GitHub.
- The game's input options are restricted to arrow keys, Z/C/N, and X/V/M, typical for PICO-8 games.
- The author is willing to address any inquiries regarding the game's development process.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39402142)

- Users are engaging in discussions about PICO-8 games, handheld gaming devices like RGB30 and Anbernic RG351V, and game development, sharing experiences and tips.
- PICO-8 is highly valued for its educational value in learning coding, leading to praise from the community.
- The conversations also touch on specific games like Nico, technical topics such as the Vimium plugin, gameplay mechanics, and the thrill of open sourcing projects.

## [Big Pharma Prioritizes Executives and Stockholders Over R&D](https://arstechnica.com/science/2024/02/big-pharma-spends-billions-more-on-executives-and-stockholders-than-on-rd/)

- A Senate report exposes big pharmaceutical companies' focus on executives and stockholders over research and development, resulting in high drug prices in the US.
- Pharmaceutical greed, patent manipulation, and strong lobbying are identified as key factors driving inflated drug costs, according to the report.
- CEOs of major pharma firms faced scrutiny in a Senate hearing led by Sen. Bernie Sanders, who condemned prioritizing profits over affordability, revealing that Americans pay more for prescription drugs than citizens in other affluent nations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39405547)

- The debate focuses on the ethics and efficiency of the pharmaceutical industry, highlighting issues like high profits, research investment, and government support.
- Proposals include government funding for for-profit firms, non-profit pharmaceutical models, and regulations to tackle excessive profits.
- Key concerns raised involve Medicare price discussions, executive pay, and the emphasis on research and development, aiming at balancing profit motives and public health in healthcare.

## [$5 Device Revolutionizes Breast Cancer Screening](https://studyfinds.org/device-breast-cancer-5-seconds/)

- Researchers from the University of Florida and National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University in Taiwan have developed a $5 handheld device to detect breast cancer in less than five seconds with a small saliva sample.
- The device utilizes basic components like glucose testing strips and the Arduino platform, ensuring portability, cost-effectiveness, and accuracy with minimal biomarkers.
- This breakthrough technology intends to transform breast cancer screening globally, providing a rapid, non-invasive, and economical option compared to conventional approaches.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39397961)

- Studies and prototypes are being developed to test breast cancer using saliva samples, sparking debates on sample size, statistical methods, and clinical relevance.
- Critics express concerns about accuracy, validation, false positives, false negatives, and the risks of early cancer screening with these devices.
- Emphasis is put on the importance of thorough testing, validation, and adherence to scientific standards when introducing new medical technologies due to the challenges in adoption.

## [Feeling Left Behind: Old Tech Enthusiast Reflects on AI](https://medium.com/@alex.suzuki/im-an-old-fart-and-ai-makes-me-sad-06003bfb6750)

- An old technology enthusiast compares advancements in AI to past innovations like PCs, the internet, and smartphones, feeling left out and frustrated by AI's opacity and lack of openness.
- He finds AI technology challenging to understand and utilize due to its inaccessibility, unlike previous technologies.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39398481)

- The discussion explores various AI technology topics such as accessibility, transparency, economic impact, procedural generation in games, and challenges in mastering AI.
- Debates arise on the value of AI-generated art versus traditional art, job security, ethical considerations, and the excitement of using AI tools.
- Ethical concerns, the cycle of hype and disappointment, and responsible use in the AI sector are highlighted as crucial aspects of working with technology.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Designing APIs for Consistent Inert Behavior" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Designing%20APIs%20for%20Consistent%20Inert%20Behavior&subheading=Saturday%2C%20February%2017%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
