---
slug: '/2024/02/21'
---

# 2024-02-21

## [Enhance Privacy on Signal: Hide Your Phone Number with Usernames](https://signal.org/blog/phone-number-privacy-usernames/)

- Signal is boosting privacy by enabling users to conceal their phone numbers by default and use unique usernames for communication, controlling who can discover them by phone number.
- Usernames are kept private in chats and can be exchanged to connect without revealing phone numbers, with users having the flexibility to adjust settings and usernames anytime.
- These new features are optional and aim to preserve privacy during interactions on the Signal platform.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39444500)

- Discussions delve into privacy, security, encryption, and user identification in messaging apps like Telegram and Signal, addressing concerns over financial sustainability, government affiliations, and security implementation.
- Users debate the delicate balance between privacy and convenience, considering the use of usernames and friend codes as alternatives to phone numbers for identification on messaging platforms.
- Topics include encryption techniques, app expiration rules, data collection, and the trade-offs between usability and privacy, as well as exploring identity verification, spam prevention, and proposing alternative methods for online communication security.

## [Kagi Sidekick: Fast Search and AI Chat Tool](https://sidekick.kagi.com/)

- Kagi Sidekick enables fast search, AI chat, and indexing on websites using minimal code, targeting personal or documentation sites.
- It's free for small/personal websites and offers commercial sites reasonably priced options, including inclusion in Kagi search.
- Users interested in the tool can engage in the Sidekick discussion thread or join Kagi's Discord community for updates and feedback.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39447041)

- The conversation focuses on Kagi Sidekick, an alpha concept by Kagi Labs to broaden their collection of personal websites and startups, touching on AI-generated content risks, SEO tactics, and nonprofit wiki difficulties.
- Users raise technical queries about the search tool's operations, exchange experiences, and propose enhancements, while some question the worth of Kagi's services and ponder their intentions behind offering free new initiatives.
- The discussion underscores the significance of delivering valuable content and transparent marketing for effective promotion in the tech industry.

## [Let's Enhance GPT Tokenization Efficiency](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zduSFxRajkE)

- The text emphasizes the significance of tokenization in large language models such as GPT-2, showcasing its impact on model performance and language processing.
- Techniques like byte pair encoding are explained to underline the importance of efficient tokenization for enhanced model performance, while various tokenization algorithms and encoding methods like utf8 are explored.
- Special focus is given to handling special tokens, training tokenizer vocabularies, and overcoming challenges posed by large vocabulary sizes in Transformers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39443965)

- The forum highlights the overlooked aspect of token usage in GPT models, suggesting tutorials and resources for understanding transformer models and AI engineering.
- Users share their experiences leveraging LLMs for different applications and recommend top-notch computer science learning materials.
- Mentions include Andrej Karpathy's videos and insights into shifting from traditional back-end engineering to the exciting field of AI engineering.

## [In Defense of Simple Architectures: The Case of $1.7B Company, Wave](https://danluu.com/simple-architectures/)

- Wave, a $1.7B company, opts for a simple CRUD app architecture with a Python monolith on Postgres, akin to Stackoverflow, showcasing a preference for simplicity over complexity in scalability.
- The company processes billions of monthly requests with synchronous Python and a task queue, encountering hurdles with telecom integrations and regulatory compliance during global expansion.
- Despite tech trends favoring intricate setups, Wave utilizes GraphQL, Kubernetes, and custom transport protocols for their API, focusing on operational ease and cost-efficiency with a small engineering team.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39440179)

- The article examines the advantages and drawbacks of microservices versus monolithic architectures in software engineering, stressing discipline, organizational setup, and communication.
- Discussions cover scalability, maintainability, complexity, and how architectural decisions influence performance and data integrity, particularly in financial services.
- Emphasis is placed on striking a balance between simplicity and complexity, meeting business objectives, achieving tangible outcomes, and managing transitions between roles and technologies in the field.

## [SSD Advancements Outpace Cloud Offerings](http://databasearchitects.blogspot.com/2024/02/ssds-have-become-ridiculously-fast.html)

- The blog post highlights SSD technology advancements in speed and capacity, contrasting improvements in commodity SSDs with stagnant cloud-based SSD performance from major vendors like AWS and Azure.
- Possible reasons for the cloud SSD performance gap are speculated, such as concerns about device failure, limited demand for faster storage, and potential disruption to existing storage services.
- The post advocates for the future introduction of speedier SSDs in cloud instances, pointing towards a hopeful outlook for enhanced cloud storage capabilities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39443679)

- The discussion delves into performance challenges of SSDs in the cloud, addressing network protocol limitations, storage optimization in platforms like AWS, CPU configurations, and economic impacts of storage settings.
- Topics include the impact of storage configurations on VM performance, network latency, strategies to enhance cloud performance, and debates on communication protocol deployment and hardware abstraction in cloud services.
- It also emphasizes the significance of locally-attached SSDs, network latency issues, reliable enterprise drives, and the balance between performance and resilience in database cluster storage options.

## [DIY LED Matrix Earrings Shine Bright](https://mitxela.com/projects/ledstud)

- LED matrix earrings are crafted using a custom circuit board with 0201 LEDs, replacing traditional components for improved functionality and aesthetics.
- Power consumption and clock speed challenges are overcome, culminating in a functional and visually pleasing final earring design.
- The project offers vanity shots of the finished product and provides access to the complete source code on git.mitxela.com and GitHub for further exploration.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39446537)

- Users engage in discussions on LED accessories like earrings and cuff links, including data transmission and music synchronization features.
- Creative LED earrings applications, cuff links' technical details, and battery efficiency are debated.
- The conversation extends to the history and advancements in quartz technology for timekeeping in clocks and watches.

## [Python Web Scraping: Techniques and Best Practices](https://proxiesapi.com/articles/web-scraping-in-python-the-complete-guide)

- Learn how to create web crawlers using Python libraries like BeautifulSoup, addressing common scraping obstacles and following best practices for extensive scraping.
- Discover techniques for extracting data from HTML files, leveraging CSS selectors, downloading images, and managing dynamic content to enhance your scraping capabilities.
- Implement strategies like crawl delays, proxies, rotating user agents, and simulating natural human behavior to prevent blocks while scraping websites responsibly, along with utilizing tools such as Selenium for web automation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39442273)

- The discussion encompasses optimizing web scraping workflows in Python, emphasizing the importance of separating crawling and scraping steps, and utilizing caching for efficiency.
- Debates on ETL vs. ELT processes in data warehousing stress the significance of testing, flexibility, and data integrity, with a focus on tools like Playwright and challenges posed by Cloudflare or AWS WAF.
- Comparison of programming languages for web scraping favors Python over Node.js, addressing common obstacles like 403/401 errors, captchas, and paywalls, suggesting solutions such as browser agents, captcha-solving services, and proxy management.

## [Microsoft Detects Hackers Using Its AI Tools for Cyberespionage](https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2024/02/microsoft-is-spying-on-users-of-its-ai-tools.html)

- Chinese, Russian, and Iranian hackers are leveraging Microsoft's AI tools to enhance their hacking skills, raising concerns about potential privacy breaches.
- This discovery suggests that Microsoft and other AI firms might inadvertently be monitoring user activities with AI tools.
- The utilization of AI for cyberespionage poses a notable threat, prompting discussions on privacy issues and surveillance measures.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39442429)

- The focus is on the diverse privacy policies and data practices of tech giants such as Microsoft, OpenAI, and Google, highlighting worries about data handling, monitoring, and accessibility.
- The debate underscores the significance of obtaining informed consent, the impact of surveillance on AI training, and the possible abuse of user information.
- Users show doubt regarding privacy policies, advocating for transparency and discussing the ethical implications of data collection and surveillance in today's digital era.

## [Creating 3D Disney World Map with Rust and WebAssembly](https://mary.codes/blog/programming/translating_openstreetmaps_to_HTML5_canvas_rust_wasm/)

- Mary Knize is enhancing her Line Buddy project by leveraging OpenStreetMap data and utilizing Rust with WebAssembly to develop a 3D map of Disney World theme parks.
- The project demonstrates fetching, processing, and presenting map data with Rust and JavaScript to efficiently handle elements like buildings, walkways, and water bodies, optimizing loading times while offering park selection.
- There are upcoming plans for additional improvements to advance the project's functionality.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39439655)

- The post explores translating OpenStreetMap data to HTML5 Canvas with Rust and WebAssembly, emphasizing visual distortions in mapping and advocating for the Mercator projection for accuracy.
- It discusses the choice between JavaScript and Rust for data processing and the potential for vector-based tiles in OSM, suggesting WebGL for drawing to enhance performance instead of transferring data between Rust and JavaScript.
- The use of various projections for precise mapping is also covered in the discussion.

## [Picat's Versatile Planning Capabilities Spotlighted](https://www.hillelwayne.com/post/picat/)

- Picat is a unique programming language blending logic, imperative programming, and constraint solving.
- The author delves into Picat's planning concept, showcases solving pathing problems, and explores different planning techniques in Picat.
- While Picat has limitations for production, it excels in solving specific computational problems; GOAP and PDDL are briefly mentioned as alternative planning languages.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39444282)

- The post explores the application of planner programming for fleet maintenance systems, addressing scaling challenges and optimization solutions.
- It compares specialized and general solvers, highlighting CP-SAT as an alternative to CPLEX in specific scenarios.
- The discussion delves into various optimization tools like OptaPlanner, open-source solvers, and the role of planning in artificial intelligence, mentioning Picat and different programming languages.

## [If Architects Worked Like Coders: Unrealistic Demands (1995)](http://www.gksoft.com/a/fun/architects.html)

- The letter presents architects with conflicting and unrealistic demands for designing and constructing a house, such as vague specifications, budget limitations, conflicting preferences, and a tight deadline.
- Architects are advised to accommodate various family members' opinions, follow contemporary design and materials, and appeal to potential future buyers.
- The letter concludes with a warning of seeking a different architect and hints at a travel trailer as a more fitting alternative.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39449424)

- The article and comments highlight the challenges and similarities in project management, client communication, liability, and adaptability between architects and software engineers.
- It discusses the importance of collaboration, understanding client expectations, and navigating regulatory challenges in both fields.
- The conversation emphasizes effective communication, collaboration, and problem-solving crucial for managing complexities in construction and software development projects while mentioning the implications of project management decisions and potential consequences of mistakes in each industry.

## [Transform your neighborhood with AI on Google Street View](https://googlemapsmania.blogspot.com/2024/02/ai-your-home-on-street-view.html)

- Panoramia is a new tool enabling users to modify their neighborhood on Google Maps Street View through AI suggestions.
- Dutch Cycling Lifestyle tool converts streets into bike-friendly settings, enhancing the urban environment for cyclists.
- Street Galleries lets users adorn cities on Street View with artwork from prestigious museums.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39439771)

- The blog post examines AI's role in redesigning Google Street View, sustainable landscaping in California, urban planning hurdles, website usability, and AI interpolation challenges.
- Community members evaluate the significance of greenery, dense housing, and community cohesion, emphasizing adherence to forum rules and respectful interactions.
- Commenters praise the site's civil atmosphere, moderation, and offer suggestions for enhancements and resolution of technical glitches.

## [Hetzner's Diverse Server Options and Services](https://robot.hetzner.com/order/index/culture/en_GB)

- The website provides various server options like dedicated servers and GPU servers, with prices depending on server type and specifications.
- Customers can transfer servers from other Hetzner clients and access colocation services and domain administration.
- VAT calculation and pricing in local currency are available based on the customer's selected country.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39440503)

- The focus is on Hetzner's new GPU server, comparing cost-effectiveness of renting vs buying hardware, electricity pricing, and server longevity.
- Discussions include signup processes, VPS cloud offerings, GPU limitations, pricing, and overall quality of cloud computing services, with user experiences included.
- Users share opinions on fraud concerns, ID verification, GPU availability, and customer support, comparing Hetzner with providers like DigitalOcean and AMD, while also addressing data privacy, NVIDIA pricing, and the impact of mining on GPU availability.

## [Valve Open Sources Steam Audio SDK 4.5.2 Under Apache 2.0](https://www.phoronix.com/news/Steam-Audio-SDK-Fully-Open)

- Valve has launched the Steam Audio SDK 4.5.2 as fully open-source under the Apache 2.0 license, allowing commercial use and modifications.
- The release comprises bug fixes and standard updates, offering an immersive audio solution for games and VR, compatible with different game engines.
- Developers are encouraged by Valve to contribute to further improving the software.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39443283)

- Valve has released their Steam Audio SDK source code under the Apache 2.0 license, enhancing accessibility for developers across various platforms.
- Discussions revolve around sound propagation importance in stealth games, suggesting methods for distance calculation and sound attenuation modeling, and comparing audio engines like Steam Audio, Fmod, and Wwise.
- Users' opinions on Valve's hardware ventures, such as the Steam Deck and Apple's Vision Pro VR headset, vary, with some skeptical and others optimistic, focusing on Apple's use of Lightning cables and challenges within the VR/AR market.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Enhance Privacy on Signal: Hide Your Phone Number with Usernames" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Enhance%20Privacy%20on%20Signal%3A%20Hide%20Your%20Phone%20Number%20with%20Usernames&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20February%2021%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
