---
slug: '/2024/02/24'
---

# 2024-02-24

## [Scammers Leverage FedEx's Reputation in Phishing Attacks](https://www.troyhunt.com/thanks-fedex-this-is-why-we-keep-getting-phished/)

- Scammers exploit FedEx's reputation to deceive people into phishing scams, resulting in a rise in fraudulent activities.
- The article highlights the growing trend of using well-known companies' names to orchestrate phishing schemes.
- Increased vigilance and awareness are crucial to avoid falling victim to such fraudulent tactics.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39479001)

- The discussion delves into security vulnerabilities in delivery services such as FedEx and challenges with password policies following NIST guidelines.
- Participants recount personal experiences with companies, revealing inefficiencies, security risks, and frustrations with technical issues in the digital era.
- Emphasis is placed on enhancing security practices, communication methods, and password management across diverse industries.

## [Creating a GPT Model in SQL: A Deep Dive](https://explainextended.com/2023/12/31/happy-new-year-15/)

- The article explores building a significant language model in SQL, addressing skeptics like ChatGPT and delving into tokenization, vector embeddings, attention mechanisms, and backpropagation for a Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT) model.
- Using PostgreSQL for tokenization is emphasized for efficient text encoding to enhance neural network performance, including code snippets and examples.
- Positive reader feedback is noted, with an invitation to discover more SQL projects on GitHub for further exploration.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39488668)

- The post explores implementing GPT using 500 lines of SQL code, with users applauding the demonstration and engaging in discussions about training, inference, and integrating neural networks in spreadsheets.
- Users admire the article's content and presentation, with additional resources linked for learning about GPT and LLMs, fostering a deeper understanding of the topics discussed.

## [Modular Home Robot Framework: OK-Robot Invites Community Collaboration](https://ok-robot.github.io/)

- OK-Robot is an open and modular framework designed for robot navigation and manipulation within home settings, allowing users to deploy it on a robot, scan the area, and control object movement effortlessly.
- Although not flawless, it leverages contemporary machine learning models and encourages community engagement for enhancements, showcasing its commitment to continuous improvement.
- The framework's code is open source, supported by a Discord server for community assistance and dialogue, having undergone testing in various home environments, thus welcoming feedback and contributions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39483482)

- OK-Robot is an open, modular home robot framework leveraging machine learning models for navigation and manipulation in homes, with a focus on aiding disabled individuals, the elderly, and others in need.
- Discussions center around challenges in robot design for cluttered environments and accessibility for people with disabilities, as well as the potential of robotics in household tasks and the impact of automation on the economy and labor workforce.
- Attendees are exploring the cost aspects of building robots, emphasizing precise movements in robotics, and deliberating on the role of robots in different industries and the necessity of universal basic income due to automation.

## [Satoshi and Sirius: Bitcoin Development Discussions 2009-2011](https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/)

- Email exchanges between Martti Malmi (Sirius) and Satoshi Nakamoto from 2009-2011 highlight Bitcoin development, addressing topics like website development, server-side scripting, and node operation.
- Martti proposes creating a website and FAQ with secured private keys, while Satoshi seeks assistance with website content and server scripting.
- The correspondence delves into issues like blocks, transactions, scalability, proof of work, spam, feature enhancements, website improvements, Bitcoin exchange service setup, and software upgrades.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39480407)

- The discussion covers the mysterious identity of Satoshi Nakamoto, the mind behind Bitcoin, touching on speculation about motives, government connections, and the consequences of revealing Satoshi's identity.
- Various topics include anonymity, privacy features in cryptocurrencies like Monero, Central Bank Digital Currencies, cryptocurrency mining, opsec in critical situations, and linguistic analysis for authorship verification.
- It emphasizes the significance of honesty, operational security (opsec), and the risks associated with creating and managing a groundbreaking project like Bitcoin.

## [Gemma.cpp: Lightweight Inference Engine for Gemma Models](https://github.com/google/gemma.cpp)

- Gemma.cpp is a lightweight inference engine for Gemma foundation models by Google, accessible on Kaggle, ideal for research and experimentation.
- Users can access model weights and tokenizer for different Gemma models on Kaggle.
- It is recommended to utilize Python frameworks such as JAX, Keras, PyTorch, and Transformers for deploying models on edge devices, and community contributions are encouraged with continuous development on the dev branch.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39481554)

- Gemma.cpp is a C++ inference engine developed by Google for Gemma models, emphasizing portability and easy modification, with a focus on CPU SIMD performance and future GPU support.
- Criticisms involve repetition penalty, bias, and model size, sparking concerns about transparency, trust, and competition with OpenAI, while highlighting Google's organizational challenges and talent retention.
- Debates within the AI community encompass performance, compatibility, and development aspects like model packaging formats, capabilities, and size limits of Gemma models.

## [Searchformer: Revolutionizing Planning with Transformers](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.14083)

- Searchformer is a Transformer model designed to tackle intricate planning tasks with fewer search steps than conventional methods.
- It surpasses baseline performance in maze navigation and Sokoban puzzles, indicating potential for handling more extensive decision-making tasks.
- Training Transformers to anticipate search dynamics proves beneficial, enhancing performance with reduced model sizes and training data.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39479478)

- Transformers are being explored for robot motion planning, showing potential for generating optimal paths quicker than prior techniques in tackling high-dimensional and continuous problems.
- Debates encompass alternative algorithms, technologies, and drawbacks of transformers, emphasizing AI's role in enhancing classical algorithms and the efficiency contrast between transformers and conventional methods like A*.
- Discussions involve model nomenclature in AI, efficiency comparisons between transformer models and traditional strategies such as A*, and the examination of exploratory decision-making algorithms like Bellman-Ford and MCTS in path planning challenges.

## [Meta's TestGen-LLM: Boosting Developer Productivity](https://read.engineerscodex.com/p/metas-new-llm-based-test-generator)

- Meta has launched TestGen-LLM, a new test generator leveraging LLM technology to enhance developer productivity by generating code improvements with verified guarantees, emphasizing enhancing existing tests.
- TestGen-LLM ensures generated tests are viable, executable, stable, and boost test coverage, showcasing high acceptance rates among developers and seamless integration into Meta's workflows.
- The tool underscores the significance of niche LLM applications in software development, emphasizing the importance of addressing unforeseen scenarios, stressing the pivotal role of LLM integration and processing in optimizing software testing and development efficiency.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39486717)

- Engineers are debating the use of Large Language Models (LLMs) to create test code or implementation, with mixed opinions on its advantages and disadvantages.
- Some view AI-generated tests as beneficial and efficient, while others stress the importance of human involvement in testing processes.
- Concerns include the quality and quantity of tests produced by LLMs and the potential impact of AI on future software development practices.

## [Gizmodo Writer Evades Detection by Renaming to "Slackbot"](https://www.theverge.com/2024/2/23/24081249/slack-slackbot-gizmodo-tom-mckay)

- Former Gizmodo writer Tom McKay rebranded himself as "Slackbot" on Slack post-departure, blending in for months unnoticed.
- By altering his profile picture and name to resemble the Slackbot icon, he fooled colleagues with bot-like messages.
- Some firms have safeguards against such actions, but Gizmodo's management failed to identify the duplicate account.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39487341)

- The discussion covers issues with account management integration between Slack and Google Office, emphasizing challenges in username and profile management across platforms.
- Tips shared include using Unicode characters and service accounts to enhance security and combat impersonation on these platforms.
- Recommendations are made for implementing Single Sign-On (SSO) and System for Cross-domain Identity Management (SCIM) to boost security and prevent unauthorized access, addressing the limitations of enterprise chat tools.

## [Unveiling Generative Models with INTRINSIC LoRA](https://intrinsic-lora.github.io/)

- The paper presents INTRINSIC LoRA (I-LoRA), a technique revealing hidden potentials of generative models such as VQGAN, StyleGAN-XL, StyleGAN-v2, and Stable Diffusion by extracting intrinsic scene features like normals, depth, albedo, and shading without extra layers.
- This model-agnostic method generates top-notch scene intrinsic maps, outperforming certain established supervised methodologies.
- I-LoRA showcases the capability to extract intrinsic scene properties, elevating the quality of generated content from various generative models.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39487124)

- The discussion covers generative models like Sora, the transformation of "Bojack Horseman" from light to dark themes, and the complexity of AI models, including rendering 3D scenes and AI's understanding and generalization abilities.
- Reference to I-LoRA, extracting scene properties, the significance of model features, and neural networks producing images directly without decoding layers is included.
- Mention of a computer vision research project funded by Toyota and Adobe, alongside speculation on AI potentially exceeding human intelligence.

## [German Bundestag Votes to Legalize Cannabis for Private Use](https://www.bundestag.de/dokumente/textarchiv/2024/kw08-de-cannabis-990684)

- The German government proposed a law to legalize cannabis for private adult consumption, permitting possession of up to 25 grams and cultivation of up to three plants for personal use.
- The legislation aims to encourage responsible use, improve health protection, reduce illegal cannabis markets, and enhance youth protection through strict regulations on private cultivation and distribution.
- Cannabis consumption near schools and youth facilities will be banned within a 200-meter radius, with no advertising or sponsorships allowed, while medical cannabis will remain available only by prescription.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39481188)

- The discussion explores drug legalization, consumption, and criminal activities across European countries, focusing on cannabis legalization in Germany and comparing it to Belgium's strict laws.
- It delves into challenges like drug addiction, market regulations' impact, availability of drugs through illegal channels, and personal experiences with cannabis addiction.
- The debate also highlights how cannabis legalization might affect criminal activity, entrepreneurship, societal impact, wealth inequality, and variations in drug laws among nations.

## [Gemini Pro 1.5: AI Game-Changer in Technology](https://every.to/chain-of-thought/i-spent-a-week-with-gemini-pro-1-5-it-s-fantastic)

- Gemini Pro 1.5, an AI model by Google, stands out from other models like GPT-4 with a larger context window capable of handling entire novels and codebases, showcasing improved performance and ease of use.
- This AI model is considered a game-changer due to its code integration capabilities, boosting developer productivity, and moving towards transformer models as mental copilots.
- The article underlines the importance of verifying the model's outputs, leveraging personal data for performance enhancement, and the challenges and benefits of utilizing large language models effectively through asking good questions and critical thinking skills.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39481670)

- The discussion explores the use of advanced AI models like Gemini Pro 1.5, touching on privacy, societal implications, and potential misuse.
- Debates include the impact on social interactions, AI applications across industries, reliability, and limitations of AI chatbots, and the consequences of depending on language modeling algorithms.
- Concerns about Google's AI systems, such as bias and performance constraints, raise issues regarding the integrity, effectiveness, and societal effects of AI technologies on decision-making processes.

## [Mamba: Revolutionizing Language Model Efficiency](https://jackcook.com/2024/02/23/mamba.html)

- Mamba, a novel language model created by Albert Gu and Tri Dao, surpasses Transformers in scalability and efficiency by tackling the quadratic attention issue with a Sequential State Model design.
- By discretizing continuous parameters, Mamba enables speedier handling of lengthy queries, merging features from recurrent and convolutional neural networks to boost training and inference speed.
- Despite not being accepted for ICLR presentation, the authors introduced parallel algorithms like FlashAttention to improve GPU processing efficiency, showcasing Mamba's potential for advancing language modeling performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39482428)

- The focus is on scaling models in AI, particularly discussing the Mamba model as a possible enhancement to Transformers, with potential benefits and effectiveness under scrutiny.
- Challenges include training large models, ensuring data quality, and grappling with the intricate nature of various model architectures in deep learning.
- There are discussions on combining Mamba with other models like MoE, along with the necessity of custom fused kernels for more extensive training sessions.

## [Genius Dogs: Learning 100+ Toy Names without Training](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/dog-language-geniuses-are-rare-but-apparently-real/)

- Certain highly intelligent dogs, especially border collies, can memorize the names of more than 100 toys without targeted training, as revealed by a study from Eötvös Loránd University in Hungary.
- The "Genius Dog Challenge" study highlights dogs from different breeds and countries with exceptional word-learning skills, prompting researchers to investigate the factors behind this ability and compare it to children's learning processes.
- Researchers aim to delve deeper into understanding the linguistic capabilities of these dogs and how they differ from those of human children.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39481805)

- Dogs, especially breeds like Australian Shepherds and Border Collies, showcase remarkable intelligence and communication skills, such as learning toy names and understanding human language.
- The potential for dogs to communicate using buttons is explored, raising questions about animal intelligence and communication capabilities.
- Emphasis is placed on the significance of training, care, and breeding practices in nurturing and improving dogs' cognitive abilities.

## [Top High Interest Savings Accounts: APY Ranges from 5.32% to 5.15%](https://www.highinterest.io/)

- The summary features top high-interest savings accounts with APY ranging from 5.32% to 5.15%, including banks like Customers Bank, Western Alliance Bank, and TAB Bank.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39480513)

- The debate on highinterest.io compares the safety of FDIC-insured high-yield savings accounts (HYSA) with the risks associated with money market funds, treasury bills, and specific investments like VUSXX fund or SPAXX at Fidelity.
- Various investment options such as T-Bills, savings bonds, and ETFs are explored for optimizing finances, building emergency funds, and maximizing returns while minimizing risks, emphasizing tax benefits and solvency considerations.
- Recommendations include maintaining a diversified investment portfolio, assessing factors like FDIC insurance and liquidity, to make informed decisions for financial growth and stability.

## [Equifax Imposes New Requirements for Free Credit Reports](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39485259)

- The person is facing new requirements from Equifax for obtaining their free annual credit report, such as providing an email address and a mobile phone number.
- Difficulties arose when trying to obtain the report via phone due to the system not recognizing their input.
- A complaint was submitted to annualcreditreport.com, but they are still waiting for a response.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39485259)

- The discussion centers on Equifax and credit bureaus' unethical practices, such as collecting excessive personal data, security flaws, and a lack of accountability.
- Recommendations include exploring new credit scoring systems, enhancing government supervision, and fortifying privacy safeguards amidst rising worries about data breaches and identity theft.
- To mitigate risks, users are urged to freeze their credit, report issues to regulators, and safeguard personal data to deter fraud and privacy infringements.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Scammers Leverage FedEx's Reputation in Phishing Attacks" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Scammers%20Leverage%20FedEx's%20Reputation%20in%20Phishing%20Attacks&subheading=Saturday%2C%20February%2024%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
