---
slug: '/2024/05/02'
---

# 2024-05-02

## [Tech Job Listings: Companies Hiring in May 2024](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40224213)

- Job board for companies to post listings, specifying remote, onsite, intern, or visa requirements; no recruiting firms allowed.
- Encourages readers to contact only if genuinely interested and redirects job seekers to other search threads.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40224213)

- Tech companies worldwide are hiring for diverse engineering roles like Full Stack Engineers, Software Developers, and Data Scientists, providing opportunities for remote, hybrid, and onsite work with a focus on cutting-edge projects in AI, genomics, cryptography, fintech, and climate tech.
- Employers are looking for candidates with particular skill sets and backgrounds, offering attractive salaries, intriguing projects, and collaborative atmospheres.
- For more details and to apply, interested individuals can visit the companies' websites directly.

## [Senators request FTC probe into automakers' location data sharing](https://www.wyden.senate.gov/news/press-releases/wyden-markey-reveal-automakers-provide-detailed-location-information-to-law-enforcement-without-a-warrant-rarely-notify-car-owners-request-ftc-investigate-broken-promises-to-protect-drivers-privacy)

- Senators Wyden and Markey urged the Federal Trade Commission to probe leading automakers for sharing customers' location data with law enforcement sans warrants.
- Few automakers demand warrants for this data, while others release it upon receiving subpoenas, raising concerns about privacy and repercussions, particularly post the Supreme Court's Dobbs decision on reproductive rights.
- The request highlights the senators' worry over inadequate privacy safeguards in the handling of location data by automakers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40222499)

- Privacy concerns arise concerning connected cars, focusing on the collection and sharing of location data by automakers.
- Recommendations suggest consumers be cautious when buying cars and disable specific vehicle features.
- Senator Wyden's report underscores the need for improved transparency and safeguards in location data sharing, advocating for enhanced privacy protection and consumer knowledge.

## [mRNA Vaccine Shows Promise Against Glioblastoma](https://www.insideprecisionmedicine.com/topics/oncology/mrna-cancer-vaccine-reprograms-immune-system-to-tackle-glioblastoma/)

- University of Florida researchers created an mRNA cancer vaccine targeting glioblastoma by reprogramming the immune system to combat the cancer.
- Tested on four adults and ten pet dogs with brain tumors, the vaccine demonstrated encouraging outcomes in stimulating the immune system against cancer cells.
- Using the patient's tumor cells and lipid nanoparticles for delivery, this personalized vaccine is advancing to an extended Phase I clinical trial for brain cancer, potentially transforming cancer immunotherapy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40231515)

- Promising results of mRNA cancer vaccines in Glioblastoma treatment underscore the role of regulatory agencies in ensuring medication quality and managing claims.
- Discussion covers the benefits and risks of mRNA vaccines, challenges in aggressive cancer treatment, and the importance of informed decision-making on vaccines.
- Topics include vaccine safety worries, public health advice, and potential connections between disease control and cancer incidence.

## [Cognition: Redefining Metaprogramming with Antisyntax](https://ret2pop.nullring.xyz/blog/cognition.html)

- The document critiques Lisp's syntax limitations and introduces Cognition, a new fully postfix language utilizing antisyntax.
- Cognition's development is discussed, emphasizing tokenization, delimiters, ignored characters, specific commands, and characters, along with customizable tokenizer delimiters and faliases.
- It explores VMACROs, recursive word definitions, incorporating Brainfuck dialect, and Cognition's applications in string processing and Symbolic AI, highlighting its automation of syntax and philosophical elegance in programming.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40231563)

- The article introduces a new language, Cognition, focusing on user-modifiable syntax, sparking debates on its clarity and relevance among readers.
- It delves into Lisp macros, ASTs, tree structures, metaprogramming, and how Cognition could redefine syntax structures dynamically.
- The discussion covers the project's complexity and creativity, including feedback on whitespace delimited words, readtable systems, and the use of arbitrary metaprogramming, with participants expressing varied opinions on its mainstream adoption and practical utility.

## [16-Year-Old Launches Factful: AI Startup Fighting Misinformation](https://factful.io/)

- Andrew, a high school student, developed Factful, an AI-driven web app to authenticate online content for accuracy and credibility beyond grammar checks.
- Factful assesses context, factuality, coherence, and more, aiming to combat misinformation and uphold content integrity in the information age.
- Users are encouraged to test the free beta version of Factful on their website while providing feedback and support to Andrew.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40222051)

- A 16-year-old high school student named Andrew is creating Factful, an AI-powered startup with friends to tackle online misinformation beyond traditional grammar checkers.
- Discussions cover the importance of awareness against selfishness, using AI for fact-checking, combatting misinformation challenges, feedback on text translation systems, and global poverty reduction.
- The conversations address using AI for fact-checking services, limitations, and efforts to fact-check televised events and election debates, reflecting on the complexity and challenges of combating misinformation and promoting truth amidst societal delusional beliefs.

## [How to Create Sleek Startup Demos: Unveiling the Tools](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40231790)

- People are making product demo videos by zooming in on the active function, sparking curiosity about the tools for creating such content.
- The author shared a product demo video link as an example, highlighting the interest in tools that seem not readily available online for this specific video style.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40231790)

- ScreenStudio is a favored tool among startups for crafting polished product demos, with alternatives like iMovie, AfterEffects, Veed, Tella.tv, Kite, and Descript also gaining attention.- Windows users can opt for tools like Descript and Camtasia for demo creation, while suggestions for creating demo videos include CleanShot X, Adobe Premiere Pro, and other options.- Hardware choices such as the Blackmagic Atem Mini are recommended for top-notch video production, alongside underlining the significance of honing presentation skills and storytelling for impactful product demos.

## [Beware of AWS S3 Cost Amplification Threat](https://blog.limbus-medtec.com/the-aws-s3-denial-of-wallet-amplification-attack-bc5a97cc041d?gi=67ac052cc1ce)

- The AWS S3 Denial of Wallet amplification attack poses a risk to companies storing large data files on AWS S3, causing unexpected cost variations due to data transfer cost calculation methods.
- This attack can lead to substantial unexpected expenses for companies, regardless of whether the data is publicly available, stemming from discrepancies between received data and billed amounts.
- Mitigation measures involve implementing cost alerts, tracking API requests, and controlling access to S3 buckets to prevent potential financial exploitation by malicious actors.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40227736)

- Users are raising concerns about a potential bug in AWS S3 causing higher egress costs with range requests, highlighting worries about billing practices, data transfer discrepancies, and unexpected fees.
- Discussions involve spending limits, unauthorized charges, API documentation, data caching, and comparisons of AWS and Cloudflare services, shedding light on challenges for system administrators handling unauthorized requests.
- The conversation emphasizes the advantages of utilizing various cloud services such as S3 Glacier and R2 amidst the ongoing issues with AWS billing and management.

## [Fresh Scrutiny on Tire Emissions' Toxicity](https://phys.org/news/2024-05-toxicity-fresh-scrutiny-salmon-die.html)

- The article highlights the potential harm of tire emissions, specifically focusing on the chemical 6PPD, which poses risks to the environment and human health.
- Researchers have discovered a connection between 6PPD and fish fatalities, leading regulators to examine this chemical closely.
- California has moved to regulate 6PPD in tires, prompting manufacturers to explore alternative options due to the concerning effects of tire emissions on air and water quality.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40223253)

- The article examines the environmental impact of tire wear and suggests implementing a weight tax on vehicles to decrease pollution and road damage.
- It explores the relationship between tire wear, vehicle weight, road deterioration, and pedestrian safety, highlighting the detrimental chemicals in tires.
- Recommendations include working from home, reducing commutes with remote work and co-working spaces, advocating for alternative transportation modes to minimize reliance on cars for an improved quality of life.

## [Tech Job Seekers Showcase for May 2024](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40224210)

- Job seekers can share their details on the platform, including location, tech skills, resume, and email for job opportunities.
- Only individuals seeking work should post, and readers are advised to contact the provided email addresses for job inquiries.
- Agencies, recruiters, and job boards are prohibited from using this platform.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40224210)

- Tech professionals with diverse skills in software development, AI, UI/UX design, frontend/backend development, etc., are actively looking for job opportunities, emphasizing remote work and relocation preferences.
- Candidates are open to different roles and locations, offering their resumes and contact details for potential employers interested in hiring them.
- The current trend in the tech industry highlights a strong interest in remote work and flexibility in job locations among skilled professionals.

## [Reviving Neofetch: New Fork Ensures Community Development](https://github.com/LorenDB/neofetch)

- Neofetch, a command-line interface tool for showing system information, has been archived because of inactivity.
- A fork has been established to guarantee ongoing community development, tackling the backlog of pull requests for potential improvements.
- The fork will address and merge incomplete requests, potentially leading to overhauls of existing features.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40222213)

- The original creator of neofetch announced a career shift to farming, resulting in a new fork named hyfetch.
- Topics discussed include LGBTQ+ themes in software, OSS volunteers' responsibilities, finding reliable project maintainers, forking GitHub repositories, criticism in the FOSS community, and communication challenges.
- The debate covers various aspects of open-source software development and community interactions, showcasing the dynamic nature of the field.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Tech Job Listings: Companies Hiring in May 2024" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Tech%20Job%20Listings%3A%20Companies%20Hiring%20in%20May%202024&subheading=Thursday%2C%20May%202%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
