---
slug: '/2024/05/03'
---

# 2024-05-03

## [Creating "ShapeUp": A 3D Modeler in C](https://danielchasehooper.com/posts/shapeup/)

- Daniel Hooper developed a 3D modeler named "ShapeUp" during a week-long programming event using C and ray marched signed distance fields for feasibility.
- He managed shapes with static memory allocation and incorporated a user interface, GLSL shader generator, mouse selection, and marching cubes export.
- Despite challenges with the raylib library, Hooper completed the project, producing a functional 3D modeler with 2300 lines of C and 250 lines of GLSL code, available online for viewing and testing.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40239164)

- The post delves into the limitations, challenges, and positives of utilizing Raylib for game development, touching on fullscreen issues, rendering capabilities, and saving shaders.
- Users express their preferences for borderless fullscreen mode compared to true fullscreen, while discussing smooth scrolling in 2D graphics on browsers with WebAssembly.
- Various topics such as parameter validation in C/C++, clear documentation importance in C programming, benefits of C in modeling/rendering, and utilization of Signed Distance Functions (SDFs) are also covered, along with mentions of advanced CAD tools, memory management in Java, upcoming game dev events, SDF rendering in Solar Ash, and the advantages of employing C/C++ in game development.

## [Mastering Cryptography: Dive into Dan Boneh's In-Depth Course](https://crypto.stanford.edu/~dabo/courses/OnlineCrypto/)

- Stanford University offers an online cryptography course by Dan Boneh, covering stream ciphers, block ciphers, key exchange, and more.
- The course provides video lectures, slides, and a free textbook for a comprehensive understanding of cryptography topics.
- Students can explore topics like message integrity, digital signatures, and public-key encryption with in-depth explanations and real-world applications each week.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40237745)

- Stanford University offers a cryptography course by Dan Boneh, receiving positive reviews and suggested additional resources.
- Books like "Real-World Cryptography" and "Applied Cryptography" by Bruce Schneier are recommended for practical and theoretical insights into cryptography.
- There's a debate on the difficulty of Boneh's course and critiques on the relevance of Schneier's book due to outdated content; however, Boneh's course is highly recommended for cryptography enthusiasts.

## [Cardio Fitness: Key Predictor of Health Risks](https://bjsm.bmj.com/content/58/10/556)

- The article assesses numerous studies examining how cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) affects mortality, chronic diseases, and overall well-being, underlining the significance of regular physical activity in maintaining good CRF.
- It stresses the robust predictive nature of CRF for various health outcomes, suggesting the routine measurement of CRF in clinical settings for health assessment and interventions.
- More research is necessary to address existing gaps in the literature and determine a causal link between CRF and health results.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40243238)

- Emphasis is placed on the significance of cardio fitness for overall health and longevity, recommending Zone 2 training for building aerobic fitness steadily.
- Consistent cardio at an easy pace can prevent injury, enhance endurance, and maximize benefits; varying routines and avoiding intensity mixing within the same session are crucial.
- The ongoing debate includes the effectiveness of wearing helmets while cycling, exploring the link between exercise, vitamin D levels, and mortality through controlled trials, underlining the need for a comprehensive approach to fitness and health.

## [Crafting an Innovative Rocket Engine: The Journey of E2 Engine Development](https://blog.ablspacesystems.com/p/building-e2)

- The E2 Engine created by ABL is a durable rocket engine powered by Jet-A and liquid oxygen.
- Despite lacking direct propulsion experience, Ryan Kuhn effectively led the program by prioritizing curiosity, intuition, and practical engineering solutions.
- The article details the design process, with a focus on the gas generator engine cycle, turbopump design, challenges faced in developing engine components like combustion chambers and impellers, and the team at AFRL making notable progress in engine development.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40240724)

- The discussion on abslacesystems.com delves into diverse topics like building a rocket engine, technical writing, Soviet engineering feats, project feedback loops, SpaceX challenges, 3D printing for rocket parts, and metal part design using CAD tools.
- It explores pressure chambers for rocket propulsion and critiques using pressure tanks for a low-cost rocket design.
- The conversation shares recommendations on software tools, manufacturing firms, and beginner tips in these areas.

## [Developing "sqlite-vec": A New Vector Search Solution in SQLite](https://alexgarcia.xyz/blog/2024/building-new-vector-search-sqlite/index.html)

- Alex Garcia introduces sqlite-vec, a new SQLite extension for vector search, designed to replace sqlite-vss, offering custom SQL functions and virtual tables.
- Written solely in C, sqlite-vec targets speed and embeddability, boasting cross-platform support for WebAssembly and mobile devices, along with improved memory management.
- The extension, currently in progress, is set for an upcoming initial release; the developer is seeking sponsorship opportunities to advance the project.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40243168)

- The author is developing a new vector search SQLite extension emphasizing linear scans initially, with future plans for advanced indexing, rapid processing of numerous vectors, and investigating quantization for speedier searches.
- Users are exchanging thoughts on related projects and their encounters with vector storage solutions, while the post covers binary vectors, quantization, machine learning models, and the advantages of vector search in databases like SQLite.
- Feedback on the project is optimistic, with users eager to contribute and expand their knowledge of SQLite extensions.

## [Microsoft bans U.S. police from using facial recognition AI](https://techcrunch.com/2024/05/02/microsoft-bans-u-s-police-departments-from-using-enterprise-ai-tool/)

- Microsoft prohibits U.S. police from employing generative AI for facial recognition in Azure OpenAI Service to address concerns about biases and risks in law enforcement technology.
- The ban covers real-time facial recognition on mobile cameras for U.S. police but not international law enforcement agencies.
- This policy shift stems from criticism of utilizing AI in law enforcement and highlights Microsoft's collaboration with OpenAI across various government entities like the Department of Defense.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40240037)

- Microsoft has banned the use of their facial recognition AI by U.S. police, sparking discussions on surveillance, drug laws, crime rates, and data collection by private and government entities.
- The conversation extends to OpenAI's policy shift on military utilization, holding tech giants responsible, anti-competitive behaviors, and Microsoft's involvement in overseeing facial recognition tech.
- Key concerns include biased recognition, ethical issues, and the absence of standards in AI usage by police departments.

## [Backblaze Q1 2024 Drive Stats: Reliable 16TB Models Lead the Pack](https://www.backblaze.com/blog/backblaze-drive-stats-for-q1-2024/)

- Backblaze published their Q1 2024 drive stats report, examining 279,572 hard drives, revealing a 1.41% annualized failure rate overall.
- The report highlights zero failures in three drive models, discusses drive sizes, manufacturers, and noteworthy findings like the reliability of 6TB Seagate drives and the transition from 4TB Toshiba to 16TB models.
- The study indicates a shift towards older drive models failing later in their lifespan, recommending specific drive models for reliability and offering the Drive Stats dataset for free download, accompanied by insights from Andy Klein on cloud storage and computer security.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40235968)

- The discussion includes topics like the reliability of refurbished hard drives, Backblaze's use of larger and more cost-effective drives, and monitoring SMART metrics to predict drive failure.
- Users share mixed responses on buying refurbished drives, cautioning about potential risks, while some rely on Backblaze's drive statistics to guide their purchasing decisions.
- Emphasizes the importance of monitoring SMART metrics and retiring drives proactively to prevent data loss.

## [RISC OS 5.30: A Different Computing Era for Raspberry Pi](https://www.theregister.com/2024/05/02/rool_530_is_here/)

- RISC OS 5.30 is the latest version of the original Arm OS, compatible with Arm-based platforms like Raspberry Pi, featuring Wi-Fi support and various applications.
- The OS, led by Steve Revill from RISC OS Open project, focuses on proper release execution, despite its unique GUI and limitations, offering productivity apps and development tools for modern hardware.
- Not supporting vintage application emulation, RISC OS, providing a throwback to a different computing era, is free, open-source, and caters to Raspberry Pi models up to 4 or 400, delivering a distinct user experience from contemporary operating systems.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40240737)

- The discussion focuses on the user experience of RISC OS, highlighting its lack of multi-user support and the potential for enhancing security measures.
- Users express nostalgia and interest in modernizing RISC OS, praising its capabilities on Raspberry Pi, with comparisons to other operating systems like AmigaOS and tools like Electron.
- Technical issues like memory map access and worries about future chipset support, along with the potential for hand-coding in Arm assembly code and open-source projects, are also touched upon.

## [Boeing Whistleblower's Death Sparks Investigation](https://www.newshub.co.nz/home/world/2024/05/whistleblower-josh-dean-of-boeing-supplier-spirit-aerosystems-dies-of-sudden-illness.html)

- Whistleblower Josh Dean, known for exposing safety issues with Boeing planes, has tragically passed away from an unexpected illness, following another whistleblower's recent death.
- Dean, a former quality auditor at Boeing supplier Spirit AeroSystems, accused senior management of overlooking manufacturing defects on the 737 MAX, with some of his claims corroborated by colleagues.
- The deaths of both Dean and John Barnett, Boeing veteran, have sparked concerns due to their close timing and circumstances, prompting ongoing police investigations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40241734)

- A second whistleblower from Boeing has passed away, sparking discussions about the company's safety procedures and accountability, notably after the Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 tragedy.
- Speculations on foul play and the potential use of MRSA for assassination are circulating, leading to debates about the likelihood, Boeing's role, and the motives behind the whistleblowers' deaths.
- Conversations also involve whistleblowers uncovering manufacturing defects, the possible weaponization of MRSA, private autopsies, and the proliferation of disinformation, with some comments addressing resilience, mortality, and conspiracy theories.

## [Second Boeing Whistleblower Dies Abruptly](https://www.newsweek.com/boeing-whistleblower-joshua-dean-dies-sudden-illness-1896401)

- A second Boeing whistleblower has tragically passed away.
- This incident was reported on May 2, 2024, with ongoing updates provided.
- -

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40235916)

- A second whistleblower from Boeing has passed away abruptly, according to Newsweek.
- The news sparked a discussion on Hacker News, leading to a related thread on the topic.
- -

## [Piccolo: Rust-Based Lua Interpreter with Unique Features](https://kyju.org/blog/piccolo-a-stackless-lua-interpreter/)

- The article explores Piccolo, a stackless Lua interpreter developed in Rust, focusing on safe sandboxing and resiliency.
- Unique features include symmetric coroutines and custom scheduling, with a spotlight on efficient garbage collection and interrupting running code.
- Emphasis on integrating seamlessly with Rust ecosystem and creating unobtrusive interpreters for diverse systems, potential for Rust coroutines in Lua for streamlined asynchronous programming.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40239029)

- Piccolo, a stackless Lua interpreter, is struggling to ensure limited execution time for bytecode instructions because of functions like Lua's "string.find()" implemented in native code.
- Emphasizes the importance of monitoring execution time in native code and highlights the compatibility strengths between Rust and Lua.
- Comments in the article discuss Piccolo's design, possible applications, and comparisons with other technologies, offering optimization tips for better performance and font legibility.

## [Orangutan Exhibits Healing Behavior Using Plant](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/science-environment-68942123)

- A Sumatran orangutan named Rakus used a plant paste to heal a wound on his cheek, marking the first observation of a wild animal using a medicinal plant for treatment.
- The behavior suggests a possible connection to the shared evolutionary history between humans and great apes, showing similarities in medicine use.
- Rakus' wound healed in about a month after applying the plant poultice, indicating a potential learned behavior from his group members.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40237855)

- The discussion explores animal intelligence and behavior, focusing on orangutans and dogs using plants for healing, touching upon ethical concerns in zoos and factory farms.
- It highlights the benefits of natural medicines and challenges in pharmaceutical patenting, calling for more research on plant medicinal properties.
- The conversation also addresses the limitations of the current pharmaceutical industry, advocating for a deeper understanding of animal behavior and medicinal potential.

## [Hacker Search: Semantic Search Engine for Hacker News](https://hackersearch.net)

- Jonathan developed Hacker Search, a semantic search engine for Hacker News, utilizing OpenAI's embedding models and traditional indexes for scraped content.
- The search engine enables users to easily discover top links and summaries by entering keywords or descriptions, with plans to expand into recommending stories based on interests.
- Despite competition, Hacker Search outperforms in keyword/sentence searches, offering users a superior experience when navigating Hacker News content.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40238509)

- Enhancing a semantic search engine for Hacker News with OpenAI models and traditional indexes is the primary focus of the discussion.
- Topics include data cleaning, document embeddings, and tools like Hyde to improve search accuracy and results.
- Plans are in place to utilize GPT models for generating summaries, enhancing user experience, and addressing limitations in the indexed dataset, with the creator open to feedback for future enhancements.

## [Innovative CSS Art: A Single Div Showcase](https://a.singlediv.com/)

- "A Single Div" is a CSS drawing project by Lynn Fisher presented on GitHub between 2014-2019, showcasing diverse designs crafted using a single HTML element.
- The project provides the opportunity to support the artist by purchasing a coffee and exploring additional single div designs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40242410)

- A Single Div" showcases graphics crafted solely with CSS in one HTML div, sparking admiration for CSS art's technical prowess in web development.
- Users engage in conversations about CSS art, highlighting its importance and sharing resources and tools for creating CSS art."
- The post includes discussions on other projects related to CSS art, extending the exploration beyond "A Single Div.""

## [Startup Accelerator Newchip Folds: Founders Lose Companies](https://techcrunch.com/2024/05/02/they-thought-they-were-joining-an-accelerator-instead-they-lost-their-startups/)

- Newchip, a startup accelerator, declared bankruptcy, leading to the auctioning of warrants from over 1,000 startups, causing founders like Lacey Hunter of TechAid to lose their companies.
- CEO Andrew Ryan received criticism for his management style, and missed opportunities in managing warrants, valued at potentially $500 million, worsened the company's financial situation.
- Deal Syndicate acquired a significant number of warrants, with more expected to be sold shortly, highlighting the risks associated with accelerator programs through the experiences of founders like Garrett Temple.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40241525)

- Entrepreneurs in the startup industry encounter challenges like accelerators acquiring companies for minimal sums and concerns about the value offered by accelerators.
- Debate arises regarding the involvement of venture capitalists in funding startups, discussing the risks and advantages of VC funding and the struggles of bootstrapped companies.
- Noteworthy figures like Naval Ravikant are influential, warrant ownership is crucial in startup investments, emphasizing potential consequences for both founders and investors.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Creating 'ShapeUp': A 3D Modeler in C" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Creating%20%22ShapeUp%22%3A%20A%203D%20Modeler%20in%20C&subheading=Friday%2C%20May%203%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
