---
slug: '/2024/05/04'
---

# 2024-05-04

## [DNS Leaks Exposed on Android: Serious Privacy Concerns](https://mullvad.net/en/blog/dns-traffic-can-leak-outside-the-vpn-tunnel-on-android)

- Bugs in the Android OS can cause DNS leaks on devices, potentially compromising privacy when using certain apps with an active VPN.
- DNS leaks may happen during VPN tunnel reconfigurations, or if apps lack a configured DNS server or use specific methods to resolve domain names.
- A privacy app is developing temporary solutions to address the leaks, advising users to update the app for protection until Google resolves the underlying issues.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40247604)

- The discussion addresses privacy, security, and transparency concerning VPN services such as Mullvad and alternative options like GrapheneOS.
- Users praise Mullvad for its dedication to privacy and transparency but raise worries about leaks and port forwarding problems.
- The conversation extends to router usage, mobile banking app security, and the risks associated with rooting devices, emphasizing the importance of balancing security, privacy, and functionality in online activities and device utilization.

## [Natron Energy Launches Sodium Batteries in US](https://newatlas.com/energy/natron-sodium-ion-battery-production-startt/)

- Natron Energy has commenced manufacturing lithium-free sodium batteries in the US, presenting an eco-friendly and widely available substitute for lithium-ion batteries.
- The sodium batteries boast faster charging rates, extended durability, and are crafted from easily accessible components, catering primarily to industrial backup power uses.
- Future strategies involve broadening the battery application scope beyond industrial sectors to additional markets.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40248627)

- The debate discusses sodium batteries as an alternative to lithium-ion batteries for mobile devices and electric vehicles, emphasizing advantages and domestic sourcing potential.
- Geopolitical implications of lithium-ion production, reliance on specific countries for batteries, and advancements in battery technology like lithium iron phosphate and hybrid vehicles are explored.
- The conversation underscores the significance of battery efficiency, safety, sustainability, and the transformative potential of emerging technologies in energy storage.

## [Private Equity's Control Impacts Wheelchair Repair Times](https://www.statnews.com/2024/05/01/wheelchair-repair-delay-numotion-national-seating-mobility/)

- Private equity firms buying wheelchair manufacturers have caused significant delays in repairs for users like Maureen Amirault, affecting their mobility.
- Disability advocates are advocating for better wheelchair services to address the repair time issue.
- Acquisition by private equity firms resulted in prolonged repair times, prompting advocacy for improved wheelchair services.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40250056)

- Private equity's dominance in the wheelchair market leads to prolonged repair wait times and high costs for users due to issues like government procurement processes and lack of competition.
- Alternative solutions such as right-to-repair laws and community-driven initiatives are suggested to tackle industry challenges caused by regulatory barriers and excessive paperwork, aiming to enhance access to affordable and quality mobility devices.
- Criticisms towards private equity center around creating inefficiencies and compromising consumer welfare by exploiting markets, triggering debates on the role of capitalism, government regulations, and diverse economic systems in safeguarding consumer rights in the market.

## [BandMatch: Connecting Musicians to Form Bands](https://bandmatch.app)

- BandMatch is a platform facilitating musicians' connections with nearby artists to create bands or work on projects collaboratively.
- Users can discover details about upcoming concerts in their vicinity through the platform.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40250557)

- Users are engaging in a discussion about a music-focused app designed for musicians to connect and form bands, highlighting limitations in the swiping interface and proposing new features like filters and list creation.
- Privacy concerns and worries about the negative effects of gamification in music creation are also being discussed, alongside the app's expansion to the UK and conversations on drummer stereotypes and challenges in finding talented musicians.
- The conversation extends to critiques of swipe-based interfaces, suggestions for better matchmaking algorithms, and the parallels drawn with the evolution of dating apps such as OkCupid.

## [Rare Brothers Grimm Fairy Tale Volumes Unearthed in Poland](https://english.nv.ua/life/27-unique-volumes-of-grimm-brothers-fairy-tales-were-found-in-poland-50415035.html)

- Researchers in Poland found 27 original volumes of Brothers Grimm fairy tales at Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznań, including rare prints with author footnotes, attracting interest from literary and folklore experts.
- The discovery paves the way for more in-depth study on the Grimm brothers' impact on global literature.
- These books, possibly acquired after World War 2, hint at the possibility of other libraries holding works from the Grimm brothers' personal collection.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40247421)

- Original Brothers Grimm fairy tales with unique content have been found in Poland, unveiling narratives of brutality, survival challenges, and societal standards.
- Conversations revolve around analyzing political metaphors in the stories, the research techniques employed by the Grimm Brothers, and the influence of conflicts on cultural legacy.
- The intertwined history of European nations, wartime impact on cultural erudition, and the intricacy of national identities are also key points of discussion.

## [Oil Industry Collusion: Impact on Gas Prices](https://www.thebignewsletter.com/p/an-oil-price-fixing-conspiracy-caused)

- In 2021, the Federal Trade Commission uncovered an oil price-fixing scheme involving American oil firms and the Saudi government, inflating gas prices and burdening families with an average cost of $3,000.
- American oil companies collaborated with OPEC to limit oil supply, bolstering prices and triggering financial consequences for consumers, leading to discussions on antitrust legal actions and governmental interference.
- The FTC's investigation has initiated discussions and examinations concerning the impact of market dominance and price manipulation on inflation rates and corporate earnings.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40250226)

- The debate revolves around accusations of price-fixing in the oil sector, covering aspects like overproduction, collusion with OPEC, and the influence of government policies.
- Participants discuss monopoly behaviors, economic stability, and environmental impacts, showcasing the intricate link between energy production, consumer actions, and government interference.
- Moreover, the conversation highlights industry challenges, the transition to renewable energy, and the possible outcomes of not addressing climate change.

## [Improving Typography with CSS Text Box Trim](https://github.com/jantimon/text-box-trim-examples)

- The CSS Text Box Trim property eliminates leading whitespace from text, aiding in aligning text accurately with containers and elements.
- Safari Technology Preview exclusively supports this property, beneficial for centering text in buttons, aligning icons, and maintaining design continuity.
- Despite implementation challenges in major browsers, this feature holds potential for enhancing typographic precision and design consistency.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40247871)

- GitHub discussions highlight the significance of CSS properties like Text-Box-Trim and Margin-Trim for enhanced web typography, with mentions of tools like Capsize.
- The conversation delves into Safari's browser capabilities impacting web design, emphasizing the importance of users, developers, and browser vendors in web development.
- Developers are intrigued by Safari for iOS' new typographic control elements, such as the "Leading-Trim" feature in CSS, expressing a mix of excitement and skepticism about their advantages.

## [Introducing Mistral 7B: A Browser-Based Llama 3 Chatbot Powered by WebGPU](https://github.com/abi/secret-llama)

- The author created Mistral 7B and Llama 3, web-based interfaces akin to ChatGPT, enhancing the WebLLM project's accessibility without needing installations or dependencies.
- Mistral 7B and Llama 3 focus on therapy and coaching, prioritizing user privacy by keeping personal data stored locally on the user's computer.
- Best suited for Chrome or Edge on Desktops, Mistral 7B and Llama 3 may expand browser support to include WebGPU, enabling quicker subsequent loads as the model is cached after the initial download.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40252569)

- Users have developed a free in-browser Llama 3 chatbot using WebGPU for therapy and coaching, available on Github for Chrome and Edge users.
- Discussions involve potential enhancements, multiple model versions, chat history feedback, local LLM program running, browser-based gaming platforms, various base model setups, GPU problems in browsers, and WebGPU integration in Firefox.
- Additionally, users are exploring Llamafile, a tool for utilizing large language models in the browser with GPU speedup.

## [Optimizing 1024-Bit Primes with Rust: A Performance Breakthrough](https://glitchcomet.com/articles/1024-bit-primes/)

- The author explores prime numbers by creating 1024-bit primes for the RSA Algorithm in Rust, implementing Fermat's Little Theorem, Miller-Rabin primality test, and a custom BigInt data structure.
- By leveraging parallel processing and optimized algorithms, the author achieves finding a 1024-bit prime in about 40ms on average, demonstrating considerable performance enhancements.
- The project, while not cryptographically secure, offers valuable insights and learning opportunities in the realm of prime number generation and algorithm optimization.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40250519)

- The article explores generating 1024-bit primes, fast primality tests, Montgomery multiplication, and cryptocurrency mining.
- It covers RSA encryption, hardware support, bignums in C programming, using deterministic algorithms for prime finding, and the Riemann hypothesis.
- Discussions entail code optimization for prime number detection, creating secure prime numbers for cryptography, and balancing efficiency and security, including key generation, entropy, PGP key generation, and an Elon Musk-related controversy.

## [Discord Arbitration Opt-out: Deadline in 30 Days](https://bsky.app/profile/silverwuffamute.bsky.social/post/3kqbd476nvk2i)

- The post discusses CSS code for web application styling, covering layout, color theming, and specific element adjustments.
- It also provides details on opting out of arbitration on Discord within 30 days via email.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40252525)

- Discord is introducing forced arbitration without American Arbitration Association approval, prompting users to opt-out promptly to avoid potential consequences.
- The debate focuses on the impact of forced arbitration on consumer protection, corporate responsibility, and the necessity for legislative action to ensure access to justice and combat unfair contract terms.
- Concerns raised include privacy breaches, user rights, the struggle of navigating multiple Terms of Service, potential monetization of user data, and the existence of explicit content on the platform.

## [Microsoft Links Executive Pay to Security Improvements](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2024/05/microsoft-ties-executive-pay-to-security-following-multiple-failures-and-breaches/)

- Microsoft has been criticized for security breaches, impacting trust from various stakeholders in recent years.
- In response, Microsoft launched the "Secure Future Initiative" to prioritize security by linking executive pay to meeting security goals.
- The initiative includes plans for improved security practices like multifactor authentication, least-privilege access, and enhanced network monitoring, with CEO Satya Nadella stressing the significance of security over new features.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40252619)

- Microsoft is linking executive compensation to security efforts following recent security incidents and breaches.
- There is a discussion about the significance of holding executives responsible for security and implementing diversity quotas.
- The tech industry is debating the challenges of defining merit in hiring, promoting transparency, and incentivizing security priorities at Microsoft.

## [Nintendo targets 8k GitHub repos for Yuzu Switch emulator takedowns](https://www.engadget.com/nintendo-blitzes-github-with-over-8000-emulator-related-dmca-takedowns-200021877.html)

- Nintendo sent out more than 8,000 DMCA takedown notices to GitHub repos containing code from the Yuzu Switch emulator, accused of promoting piracy.
- Yuzu emulator recently settled a $2.4 million lawsuit with Nintendo before the flood of takedown notices on GitHub.
- Legal actions by Nintendo against emulators, like Yuzu, could affect endeavors aimed at preserving games.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40254602)

- Nintendo has issued DMCA takedown requests on GitHub for emulator-related content, citing violations of DMCA section 1201, sparking debates on the legality of emulation, reverse engineering, and copyright laws.
- Discussions include exploring decentralized options like Radicle and BitTorrent for hosting git repositories and the effects of DMCA on digital content distribution.
- -Emulator developers are being targeted by Nintendo, fueling debates on emulation legality, DMCA rules, and corporations' role in safeguarding intellectual property, alongside calls for boycotting and legal reform for decentralized hosting platforms.

## [A Journey of Discovery: From Web Development to Bike Repair](https://tegowerk.eu/posts/bicycle-repair/)

- In 2020, the narrator found a passion for bike repair by working on two old bicycles, learning through trial and error and online resources.
- This hobby shifted their perspective on work, tangible objects, and fulfillment compared to their web development day job.
- Embracing hands-on work has brought newfound satisfaction and a deeper appreciation for craftsmanship and its impact on both objects and individuals.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40255209)

- The discussion revolves around the love for cycling and the dislike for maintenance, exploring various maintenance techniques like electronic shifting and wax lube for low-maintenance.
- Participants weigh the cost and benefits of bikes versus cars, find therapeutic value in bike maintenance, and derive satisfaction from customizing and repairing bikes.
- The conversation highlights challenges in maintaining different bikes, the need for convenient repair options, and the balance between simplicity and performance in bike maintenance, with some expressing frustration while others find joy in the process.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="DNS Leaks Exposed on Android: Serious Privacy Concerns" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=DNS%20Leaks%20Exposed%20on%20Android%3A%20Serious%20Privacy%20Concerns&subheading=Saturday%2C%20May%204%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
