---
slug: '/2024/05/05'
---

# 2024-05-05

## [Revived Dillo Project Releases Version 3.1.0](https://dillo-browser.github.io/latest.html)

- The Dillo project, dormant for almost 9 years, has been revived by the author who released version 3.1.0 after several months of work.
- The revival includes creating a new mailing list, receiving donations via LiberaPay, bug fixes, and the addition of new features.
- The author appreciates the contributions made and aims for the new version to be adopted by different distributions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40260035)

- Dillo 3.1.0 has been released after 9 years, introducing new features and bug fixes to the lightweight browser, favored for its accessibility on slow internet connections and old hardware.
- Users are sharing their experiences with Dillo, appreciating its speed, minimalist design, compatibility with plugins, and support for HTTPS encryption, while also discussing the potential development of brew packages for Dillo and Dillo-plus.
- The community shows gratitude for Dillo's efficiency and the developer's quick support, emphasizing its value for users with limited resources.

## [Don't Make Me Fill Out Your Contact Form](https://adamjones.me/blog/dont-use-contact-forms/)

- The article critiques contact forms on websites for being problematic, citing issues like malfunctioning forms, poor user experience, and excessive personal data requests.
- It recommends using email as a streamlined and user-centric option for communication and gathering feedback, emphasizing clear communication and accessibility for users.
- Some entities deliberately complicate forms to sidestep regulations, underscoring the significance of facilitating user contact via clear communication channels like email.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40256868)

- The debate encompasses frustrations with flawed job application processes and customer service encounters, highlighting the significance of steering clear of adverse online interactions.
- Discussions include the influence of TV on politics, tactics for enhancing customer engagements, issues surrounding email spam, the efficiency of website contact forms, and the integration of LLMs and AI in customer support.
- The spotlight is on the necessity of employing transparent communication channels and fostering positive interactions in personal and professional environments.

## [How to Develop a $20B Semiconductor Fab](https://www.construction-physics.com/p/how-to-build-a-20-billion-semiconductor)

- Semiconductor manufacturing is complex and precise, involving costly facilities, equipment, and safety measures to produce microchips.
- Leading companies like Intel and Samsung invest heavily in modern fabs to meet the demand for advanced technology.
- The semiconductor industry faces challenges due to the high costs of manufacturing, leading to a trend of companies adopting a fabless model by outsourcing chip production to foundries.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40258037)

- TSMC and Intel are constructing new semiconductor fabs in Phoenix, AZ under the CHIPS Act, impacting economic and national security.
- The discussion includes TSMC's cultural challenges, Arizona's semiconductor manufacturing history, and the pros and cons of outsourcing.
- Topics range from chip design, fabrication processes, EUV machines, water usage concerns, sustainability, and AI's potential in addressing global issues.

## [In Praise of Leisure: Bertrand Russell's Vision for a Balanced Society](https://harpers.org/archive/1932/10/in-praise-of-idleness/)

- Bertrand Russell proposes a shift in societal values from glorifying work to valuing leisure, suggesting modern technology can maintain productivity with fewer working hours.
- Russell criticizes the unequal distribution of wealth and power and questions the historical foundations of the obligation to work, advocating for a society where all can enjoy leisure and pursue their interests for a happier life.
- His argument aims for a society where individuals have more leisure time, promoting a more content and tranquil way of living.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40257677)

- Bertrand Russell's essay "In Praise of Idleness" emphasizes the significance of leisure time in nurturing creativity and innovation.
- The essay discusses Universal Basic Income, the diminishing easy opportunities in society, and the interplay of idleness with creativity, productivity, and wealth inequality.
- It explores various viewpoints on work, leisure, wealth, success, societal norms, advocating for a harmonious balance between work and idleness amidst historical foundations and evolving societal attitudes.

## [ADA Lawsuit Raises Concerns Over Corporate Ties](https://www.theguardian.com/global/commentisfree/2024/may/02/american-diabetes-association-lawsuit)

- The American Diabetes Association settled a lawsuit for allegedly accepting corporate funds in return for promoting recipes that could be harmful to individuals with diabetes.
- The ex-chief nutritionist, Elizabeth Hanna, filed the lawsuit, claiming pressure to endorse recipes with artificial sweeteners despite the associated risks.
- The settlement enabled the ADA to sidestep additional investigation and potentially damaging disclosures, revealing insights into the organization's conduct and connections to corporate interests.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40259196)

- The discussion explores Type 2 Diabetes, low-carb diets, and the American Diabetes Association's strategies, emphasizing the significance of lifestyle changes in managing the condition.
- It addresses the impact of artificial sweeteners on health, the complexities of diabetes management, and historical perspectives, discussing corporate influences on health organizations.
- Emphasizes the importance of accurate information, personalized treatment plans, and critical evaluation of prevailing medical beliefs in managing diabetes effectively.

## [Verus: Verify Rust Code with Advanced Specifications](https://github.com/verus-lang/verus)

- Verus is a tool that verifies Rust code correctness by enabling developers to write specifications checked by solvers, supporting a subset of Rust and extending beyond the standard type system.
- The project is actively developed, with incomplete documentation; users are advised to seek help on Zulip, aiming to verify concurrent code and welcoming contributions.
- Users can experiment with Verus in-browser or pursue installation instructions for in-depth development, communicating and reporting issues on GitHub or Zulip.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40259185)

- The text examines Verus for formally verifying Kubernetes controllers, distinguishing between code verification and proof of correctness, and the importance of zero-knowledge proofs in cloud security.
- It analyzes the cost-effectiveness of cloud services versus physical infrastructure and the practical applications of zero-knowledge proofs in blockchain and password security.
- The discussion covers formal software verification, leveraging tools like Dafny and Verus, and utilizing interactive provers such as Coq and Lean for ensuring code accuracy, alongside tools like verus-analyzer, SMT solvers, and TLA+ for tackling intricate problems.

## [GPUDeploy.com: Revolutionizing GPU Access and Efficiency](https://www.gpudeploy.com)

- A startup transitioned from drone delivery to launch gpudeploy.com, a platform redirecting on-demand GPU instance traffic to available compute resources.
- The website offers straightforward service without concealed charges, granting users access to GPUs such as H100s, RTX 4090s, and GTX 1080 Ti.
- Seeking compute resources to link with their platform for potential return on investment.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40260259)

- Gpudeploy.com functions as an "Airbnb" for GPUs, enabling users to rent out GPU instances and route on-demand traffic to idle compute resources.
- The platform provides a straightforward user experience with multiple GPU options and transparent pricing, sparking discussions on security, potential computation errors, and the importance of rigorous operator verification.
- Users discuss the shifting business models towards GPU marketplaces, opportunities in cluster computing, and the market effects of GPU pricing fluctuations and hoarding.

## [New Automated Hash Functions Outperform MurmurHash3](https://github.com/skeeto/hash-prospector)

- The text introduces the Hash Function Prospector tool, focusing on automated discovery of integer hash functions, particularly two-round permutations with low bias.
- New hash functions like triple32, with bias measurements approaching the theoretical limit, are presented, outperforming established algorithms like MurmurHash3 on x86-64 architecture.
- Code examples for implementing hash functions are offered, highlighting the significance of reversible operations and advising caution with C integer promotion rules.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40261681)

- GitHub user skeeto has created an automated tool for discovering integer hash functions, praised for his code quality and previous library developments.
- The tool focuses on producing integer hash functions with high output randomness and reversibility, deemed beneficial for quick integer hashing and applications in perfect hashing, performance optimization, and cryptography.
- Users are discussing the potential applications of this tool in various fields due to its capabilities in generating efficient integer hashes.

## [Vulture Decline Imperils Zoroastrian Burial Rites](https://www.theguardian.com/world/article/2024/may/04/vulture-shortage-threatens-zoroastrian-burial-rites-india-iran-pakistan)

- The decline of vultures in the Indian subcontinent is jeopardizing Zoroastrian burial customs, notably for the Parsi community that relies on vultures for body disposal at towers of silence.
- Vulture population decrease is mainly attributed to poisoning from diclofenac given to cattle, prompting initiatives like banning the drug and captive vulture breeding as solutions.
- Efforts such as prohibiting diclofenac usage and reintroducing captive-bred vultures into the wild aim to avert the extinction of vulture species.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40257064)

- The decline in vulture populations, mainly due to poaching, poisoning, and consumption of harmful substances, endangers Zoroastrian burial rituals.
- Vultures, known for their social nature, intelligence, and unique behaviors like sharing food and soaring on updrafts, are facing threats from NSAIDs and pollutants in their food sources.
- The conversation emphasizes the challenge of balancing personal beliefs with broader societal and environmental issues, impacting cultural preservation and shaping perspectives through travel experiences.

## [Remembering Atari's Iconic Designer, Mike Jang](https://arcadeblogger.com/2024/02/13/ataris-mike-jang/)

- Mike Jang, a renowned Industrial Designer at Atari's coin-operated division, has passed away, leaving behind a legacy of iconic arcade cabinet designs like Missile Command and Star Wars.
- Jang was known for his meticulous attention to detail, focus on refining ergonomics, and creating immersive physical interfaces for players, overseeing the production of games like Roadblasters.
- His design heritage endures in the arcade hardware he crafted, and his work documents are archived at Stanford University for future research, marking his significant impact on the gaming sector.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40260210)

- The article explores how Atari's Star Wars arcade game influenced people and mourns the recent loss of Mike Jang, prompting users to reminisce about their nostalgic Atari gaming moments.
- Users acknowledge the developers for shaping the gaming industry and express gratitude towards them for their contributions.
- A podcast honoring Ted Dabney, a video game industry trailblazer, is also highlighted in the discussion.

## [Vera Rubin Observatory: Major Milestone as Mirror Receives First Reflective Coating](https://www.universetoday.com/166842/vera-rubins-primary-mirror-gets-its-first-reflective-coating/)

- The Vera Rubin Observatory's primary/tertiary mirror has been coated with silver, a critical advancement in the telescope's construction.
- The mirror's innovative design, featuring two optical surfaces with distinct curvatures, enables exceptional light collection and wide-field imaging capacity.
- The successful 4.5-hour coating process signifies a major achievement in the observatory's journey towards achieving first light.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40261001)

- The Vera C. Rubin Observatory applies the first reflective coating to Vera Rubin's primary mirror, commemorating her contributions to astronomy focusing on dark matter and galaxy rotation.
- With a design enabling capturing extensive sky areas in one image, the observatory aims to survey the sky broadly and uncover groundbreaking findings.
- Through substantial construction and engineering work, the observatory is poised to enhance our comprehension of the universe by monitoring temporal variations.

## [Spotify's Backstage: Enterprise IT Tool Expansion](https://techcrunch.com/2024/04/30/spotifys-getting-serious-about-its-enterprise-and-dev-tools-business-play/)

- Spotify has ventured into the enterprise and developer tools domain with its platform Backstage, offering customizable developer portals, initially launched as an open-source project in 2020.
- The platform is now monetized through premium plug-ins and services, alongside the introduction of Spotify Portal, a low-/no-code internal developer portal, complemented by enterprise support and services.
- The shift signifies Spotify's transformation into an enterprise-oriented developer tools firm, with upcoming additions of features and products to its portfolio.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40258315)

- Spotify has launched Backstage, an IT platform for streamlining services for companies with many engineers, receiving positive feedback from larger firms with complex systems.
- Discussions address technical debt, shadow IT challenges, and project comparisons within companies like Amazon, emphasizing Helm and Kustomize for managing Kubernetes deployments.
- Backstage is acknowledged as a valuable tool for standardizing services and enhancing documentation in enterprises, though criticisms focus on its plugin architecture and complexity, alongside concerns about Spotify's reliability and functionality, notably its queue system.

## [Budget Cuts Halt Mirror Fusion Test Facility](https://www.beautifulpublicdata.com/the-mirror-fusion-test-facility/)

- The Mirror Fusion Test Facility, a project focusing on nuclear fusion, was closed on its dedication day due to financial limitations, never being operational.
- This project, using a magnetic mirror method to confine plasma for fusion reactions, was dismantled in 1998 after the Reagan administration's decision.
- Recent advances like achieving the first net energy gain fusion reaction at the National Ignition Facility have sparked new optimism for the future of fusion research.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40257843)

- The Mirror Fusion Test Facility (MFTF) was a government-funded fusion research project completed in 2023, but funding was cut shortly after due to progressing too quickly without identifying all instabilities.
- Fusion research, such as ITER, incurred billions in costs, with ongoing exploration of different mirror magnet designs despite past failures.
- The debate over fusion's clean energy potential versus the cost-effectiveness of renewables like solar and wind extends to discussions on large-scale projects' value, including space programs, nuclear weapons development, and concerns over WMDs' limited effectiveness in warfare.

## [Sequoia: Accelerating LLM Serving on Consumer GPUs](https://infini-ai-lab.github.io/Sequoia-Page/)

- Sequoia is a decoding framework designed for serving large language models (LLMs) on consumer GPUs without approximation, ensuring low latency.
- It accelerates LLM serving by offloading tasks, offering scalability and robustness while adapting to various hardware platforms and model sizes.
- Promising performance on current and upcoming hardware positions Sequoia as a versatile solution for hosting powerful LLMs and AI-generated content.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40261965)

- Discussions focus on comparing GPT-4 with newer AI models like Sonet, highlighting safety measures by major labs like OpenAI.
- Explore methods for efficiently serving large models on GPUs and considering local versus cloud services for running models.
- Examined factors include portability, privacy, scalability, and industry impacts, with potential applications for on-device inference.

## [Judge Considers Sanctions in Google Monopoly Trial](https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2024/05/judge-mulls-sanctions-over-googles-shocking-destruction-of-internal-chats/)

- The US Department of Justice accused Google in the ongoing monopoly trial of intentionally destroying internal chats linked to antitrust violations, aiming to preserve its search monopoly.
- Google's attorney argued that the deleted chats were insignificant for the case, while the judge raised concerns about Google's document retention practices and discussed potential sanctions against the company.
- The DOJ requested four sanctions, including presuming the deleted chats were detrimental to Google and preventing Google from using lack of evidence as a defense in the trial, prompting debates on Google's motives for deleting chats and the implications of its chat policy on concealing antitrust violation evidence.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40262190)

- Google is facing criticism for potentially deleting internal chats on sensitive subjects by directing employees to disable chat history, sparking a debate about the significance of such chats and the legal consequences of not preserving evidence.
- Discussions encompass Google's transition to Signal for communication, worries about widespread surveillance, and the requirement for fair treatment in legal scenarios.
- Emphasizing the significance of documenting knowledge in organizational culture, there are calls for companies to maintain communication records when mandated by the court.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Revived Dillo Project Releases Version 3.1.0" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Revived%20Dillo%20Project%20Releases%20Version%203.1.0&subheading=Sunday%2C%20May%205%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
