---
slug: '/2024/05/08'
---

# 2024-05-08

## [Apple Unveils Powerful M4 Chip for New iPad Pro](https://www.apple.com/newsroom/2024/05/apple-introduces-m4-chip/)

- Apple has unveiled the M4 chip in the latest iPad Pro, boasting a 10-core CPU, 10-core GPU, and advanced Neural Engine for better performance.
- The chip incorporates second-generation 3-nanometer tech for improved graphics and rendering, a new display engine, faster CPU and GPU, and advanced AI features.
- This initiative aligns with Apple's 2030 carbon neutrality target, highlighting the company's commitment to innovation, environmental sustainability, and robust AI capabilities in the tech industry.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40286029)

- Apple has launched the advanced M4 chip focusing on AI, emphasizing edge devices for privacy and low latency.
- Engineers favor MacBooks for their quality, OS, and performance, despite a debate on operating systems for development and a trend towards web apps.
- The transition to ARM processors on Macs benefits developers but presents challenges in virtual machines and specific development needs, including debates on luxury status, privacy, and customization limitations by Apple.

## [Revolutionizing Cold Brew Coffee: Ultrasonic Waves Brew in 3 Minutes](https://www.unsw.edu.au/newsroom/news/2024/05/Ultrasonic_cold_brew_coffee_ready_under_three_minutes)

- The University of New South Wales offers diverse study programs, including support for international students and Higher Degree Research, along with accommodation information, fee details, scholarships, and application procedures.
- The university emphasizes research, industry partnerships, and various research areas, focusing on social impact, innovation, and collaboration within its community.
- Researchers at the university have innovated an ultrasonic sound wave method to expedite cold brew coffee production from hours to minutes, maintaining taste quality, potentially transforming the coffee industry with a quicker and more effective brewing process.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40284823)

- The discussion dives into various aspects of cold brew coffee, such as brewing methods, equipment, personal preferences, challenges of roasting, and debates over heating cold brew.
- Users exchange tips, experiences, and recommendations on coffee-making techniques, including acidity, flavor, authenticity, and health effects of cold brew.
- Topics like ultrasonic technology, custom orders, and storage methods are also explored, highlighting the significance of personal taste and balance between simplicity and complexity in coffee brewing.

## [LPCAMM2: The Future of Laptop Memory Upgrades](https://www.ifixit.com/News/95078/lpcamm2-memory-is-finally-here)

- LPCAMM2 is a new memory standard designed for laptops, featuring modularity, repairability, and upgradeability, using LPDDR chips to allow seamless upgrades and repairs.
- It aims to resolve the conflict between serviceability and battery life typically related to soldered LPDDR chips, representing a collaborative effort from tech giants like Dell, Micron, and Lenovo.
- The release of LPCAMM2 signifies a progressive move towards sustainable and repairable devices in the tech industry.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40286734)

- The discussion highlights the introduction of LPCAMM2, a modular and repairable laptop memory standard, addressing soldered RAM issues.
- Users are frustrated with overspecified models and high upgrade costs, while manufacturers like Dell and Lenovo see benefits in upgradable RAM for easier repairs and cost-effectiveness.
- Debates include the financial impact, practical advantages, future tech developments, and comparisons between unified and traditional memory systems, emphasizing the benefits of socketed components and the value of upgrading laptops with RAM, SSDs, and CPUs.

## [Pyspread: Python-Powered Spreadsheet Solution](https://pyspread.gitlab.io/)

- Pyspread is a Python-based spreadsheet application enabling users to input Python expressions in cells, eliminating the need for a specific spreadsheet language.
- It is open source, offering features like Python module access, data export, and versatile content display, targeting Python-savvy individuals like researchers and business analysts.
- Users like Clara and Peter benefit from integrating Python code for data analysis, while those without programming experience, like Donna and Jack, or requiring cluster computing may find pyspread less suitable.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40284219)

- The importance of defining target users and out-of-scope usage for software like Pyspread is discussed.
- Challenges and solutions for installing and running Pyspread in different operating systems are addressed.
- The conversation covers the value of curated software in Linux distributions, potential impact of open-source contributions, user experience, and limitations of spreadsheets like Excel.

## [Revitalizing Downtowns: The Trend of Converting Office Towers into Apartments](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2024/05/06/can-turning-office-towers-into-apartments-save-downtowns)

- Real estate developer Nathan Berman specializes in converting Manhattan office towers into luxurious apartments to combat the city's housing shortage, maximizing residential space in outdated buildings.
- The pandemic has accelerated the trend of converting office spaces to apartments, notably impacting downtown areas like the financial district, increasing residential occupancy.
- Berman's cost-effective and eco-friendly approach has revitalized neighborhoods like the financial district, drawing in young professionals and families to live in his converted office buildings.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40285211)

- Converting office towers into apartments is being explored to rejuvenate downtown areas, using successful projects in Kansas City as examples.
- The discussion delves into urban development, crime rates, safety perceptions, public transportation, and challenges faced when repurposing older buildings for residential purposes.
- Participants also touch on building codes, maintenance, ventilation systems, and the advantages of mixed-use spaces in city planning, emphasizing safety regulations in high-rise structures.

## [Boeing Probed for Alleged 787 Inspections Issue](https://www.theguardian.com/business/article/2024/may/07/boeing-us-investigation-787-inspections-faa)

- Boeing is under a new US Federal Aviation Administration investigation for potential lapses in quality inspections on its 787 Dreamliner aircraft.
- The FAA is examining if Boeing staff falsified records, with Boeing addressing the issue through corrective measures.
- A whistleblower highlighted worries about production shortcuts and safety problems with Boeing planes, adding to the scrutiny on the company's practices.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40284389)

- Boeing faces scrutiny for overlooked inspections on its 787 planes, raising concerns about inspection delegation systems.
- Comparisons with Airbus's rigorous inspection procedures highlight potential systemic problems within Boeing and the impact of industry deregulation.
- Safety worries, accountability issues, and discussions on potential government actions like shutdowns or nationalization are ongoing, reflecting broader concerns about safety and quality compromises for profit reasons at Boeing and beyond.

## [Hackers Crack NES Tetris, Enable Reprogramming within Game](https://arstechnica.com/gaming/2024/05/hackers-discover-how-to-reprogram-nes-tetris-from-within-the-game/)

- Hackers found a way to reprogram NES Tetris from within the game, enabling players to prevent crashes and introduce new behaviors.
- By manipulating crash and controller input mechanisms, players can influence the game code post-crash and inject instructions into the high score table.
- This breakthrough offers the potential to eliminate crash bugs from NES Tetris, benefiting players aiming to exceed level 255 or revolutionize the game experience.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40284291)

- Hackers reprogram NES Tetris, sparking debates on running arbitrary code on the universe's computational structure, touching on Windows, Linux, and simulations.
- Discussions delve into free will, reality, quantum physics, and philosophical implications, highlighting the significance of engaging in enjoyable projects and leisure activities for mental well-being.
- Unexpected benefits from apparently trivial tasks and accomplishments using arbitrary code execution in retro video games are also shared, emphasizing the value of play.

## [Apple Found Guilty of Illegal Staff Interrogation and Flyer Confiscation](https://www.forbes.com/sites/antoniopequenoiv/2024/05/06/us-labor-board-rules-apple-illegally-interrogated-staff-and-confiscated-union-flyers/)

- The National Labor Relations Board found that Apple unlawfully questioned employees and took away union pamphlets at its World Trade Center store in NYC, as per a judge's determination.
- Despite the violations, Apple has not been penalized for these actions, while additional cases on unionization issues involving Apple are ongoing.
- Over recent years, several Apple stores have managed to form unions successfully.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40294630)

- The article delves into allegations of labor law violations by Apple, emphasizing power dynamics and greed in the workplace, and the significance of unions in mitigating such issues.
- It compares the market dynamics of the US and Denmark, evaluates the role of unions in safeguarding workers' rights, and assesses implications on housing affordability and education quality.
- Furthermore, it explores the impact on tech workers and construction sectors, underscoring the delicate balance between profits and worker welfare, while emphasizing the role of the judicial system and due process in decision-making.

## [Decker: A Modern HyperCard Revival with 1-Bit Graphics](https://www.beyondloom.com/decker/index.html)

- Decker is a multimedia platform influenced by HyperCard and classic MacOS, allowing users to generate interactive documents like E-Zines, presentations, and games with a "ditherpunk" look.
- Users can save their creations as standalone .html files, benefit from quality-of-life enhancements, a user-friendly scripting language called Lil, interactive widgets, and the option for custom widget development.
- Decker is privacy-focused, open-source under the MIT license, command-line compatible, and provides resources like the Lil programming language, reference manual, and a community forum on Itch.io.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40292181)

- The discussion delves into the accessibility and user-friendliness of early software development tools like HyperCard when compared to modern ones.
- Apple's choice to ban Flash on the iPhone due to performance concerns is examined, sparking a debate on alternatives such as Livecode and SuperCard.
- The conversation also touches on the shift from HyperTalk to contemporary programming environments, emphasizing problem-solving abilities in interviews over proficiency in programming languages, with the introduction of Lil as a straightforward coding language for interviews.

## [Zed: High-Performance App Development on Linux with GPUI](https://zed.dev/blog/zed-decoded-linux-when)

- The article explores the creation of Zed, a high-performing application, on Linux utilizing the GPUI framework to enable its functionality on the platform.
- It delves into technical choices and obstacles faced, including selecting audio and rendering systems, particularly highlighting the employment of Blade, a Vulkan-based solution, for rendering on Linux.
- The team is gearing up for an imminent alpha launch on Linux, enhancing features and stability, and is on the hunt for software development enthusiasts to join their workforce.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40286959)

- The forum discussion revolves around Zed, a text editor, covering topics such as graphics libraries, rendering efficiency, platforms, collaborative tools, Apple's Metal API, and the choice of Blade over wgpu.
- Users express mixed opinions on Zed's performance, features, and business model, with debates on speed, collaboration, and usability.
- The conversation extends to the Zed website's accessibility, comparing it to other text editors like Sublime Text and Atom, while also debating internet users' understanding and the efficacy of online forum moderation.

## [New SecureDrop Encryption Protocol Enhances Source Anonymity](https://securedrop.org/news/introducing-securedrop-protocol/)

- The blog post explores a new end-to-end encryption protocol for the upcoming SecureDrop system, enhancing source anonymity and preventing metadata correlation.
- The protocol prioritizes deniability, secure message delivery, and user privacy, utilizing cryptographic primitives and a straightforward API.
- Future developments include finalizing the protocol, tackling browser-side encryption, and gathering input from the security community, led by Giulio B. Davide TheZero and funded by the Freedom of the Press Foundation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40286632)

- Debate focusing on the practicality of the SecureDrop Protocol for Boeing engineers compared to using Tor and HTTP upload is ongoing.
- Mention of Bitmessage as an alternative to the SecureDrop Protocol raises concerns about its security and legality, sparking further debate on the topic.
- Discussions also touch on the necessity of specific requirements in the SecureDrop Protocol, adding depth to the conversation on secure communication methods for sensitive information.

## [Microsoft Shuts Down Multiple Bethesda Affiliated Game Studios](https://www.ign.com/articles/microsoft-closes-redfall-developer-arkane-austin-hifi-rush-developer-tango-gameworks-and-more-in-devastating-cuts-at-bethesda)

- Microsoft has shuttered multiple Bethesda studios, such as Arkane Austin, Tango Gameworks, and others, leading to extensive job cuts.
- The closures stem from Microsoft's strategic shift in projects and resources, resulting in the reassignment of some employees to different initiatives.
- Titles like Redfall will cease to receive updates, while games like Mighty Doom and Hi-Fi Rush are set to be discontinued, alongside job reductions in Bethesda's publishing and corporate divisions, aligning with a broader pattern of layoffs in the gaming sector.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40285476)

- Concerns are raised about game development and innovation, especially with major studios like Bethesda closing and Microsoft focusing on safe, unoriginal AAA games.
- The discussion delves into the differences between indie and AAA games, emphasizing aspects like innovation, team size, budgets, storytelling, the impact of AI, and the importance of diversity in portfolios.
- Criticisms of corporate practices, management issues, and the disposable treatment of game studios, along with debates on Game Pass and hardware's role in the industry, are highlighted in the conversation.

## [Ultimate Guide to Dotfiles Management on GitHub](https://dotfiles.github.io/)

- The guide provides tutorials, utilities, frameworks, and tips for managing dotfiles on GitHub, enabling users to backup, restore, and sync their preferences and settings.
- Users can learn from the community, share their knowledge, and find inspiration for organizing and customizing dotfiles on the site.
- Additionally, users can contribute by submitting feature requests, opening issues, or submitting patches to enhance the guide further.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40284164)

- GitHub discussions focus on various tools like Chezmoi, stow, Home Manager, Nix, for dotfile management, emphasizing individual preferences and concerns about data loss.
- Users highlight the importance of finding a suitable tool that aligns with personal needs and discuss the efficiency of different tools, including the use of branches in git-based methods.
- Personal preference and usability are key factors in selecting the most appropriate approach for managing dotfiles on GitHub.

## [The Grateful Dead's Revolutionary Wall of Sound](https://audioacademy.in/the-grateful-deads-wall-of-sound/)

- Owsley "Bear" Stanley, the Grateful Dead's sound engineer, developed the groundbreaking Wall of Sound in 1974, transforming live sound engineering.
- Comprising over 600 speakers and cutting-edge sound technology, the Wall of Sound provided unparalleled audio quality and resolved common technical problems.
- Despite facing some hurdles and needing modifications for practicality, the Wall of Sound significantly influenced live sound engineering with its avant-garde and inventive approach.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40289323)

- The Grateful Dead's Wall of Sound was a groundbreaking but pricey and impractical sound system that impacted modern PA technology.
- Their innovative sound engineering experiments reshaped the live music sector and were influenced by psychedelic counterculture.
- The discussion involves advancements like individual speaker stacks, comb filtering, speaker arrays, and amplifier use in music performances at length.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Apple Unveils Powerful M4 Chip for New iPad Pro" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Apple%20Unveils%20Powerful%20M4%20Chip%20for%20New%20iPad%20Pro&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20May%208%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
