---
slug: '/2024/05/10'
---

# 2024-05-10

## [Revisiting TCP_NODELAY in Modern Distributed Systems](https://brooker.co.za/blog/2024/05/09/nagle.html)

- Marc Brooker, an engineer at Amazon Web Services, focuses on databases and serverless tech, debates the TCP_NODELAY socket option and Nagle's algorithm in distributed systems.
- Brooker suggests TCP_NODELAY should be the default setting, stating Nagle's algorithm might not be essential in contemporary systems.
- He elaborates on the history and consequences of these network protocols.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40310896)

- The debate centers around enhancing network performance by adjusting settings like TCP_NODELAY, TCP_QUICKACK, and TCP_CORK, with a focus on latency impact in network applications.
- Participants exchange experiences and insights on optimizing network protocols such as TCP and UDP for better performance, stressing the significance of efficient protocol utilization and code optimization in data center scenarios.
- Recommendations are provided for tweaking settings to boost data transmission effectiveness and avert network-related challenges.

## [World First Gene Therapy Trial Restores Hearing in Deaf Child](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/health/deaf-cure-girl-gene-therapy-b2541735.html)

- A groundbreaking gene therapy trial in the UK has restored the hearing of an 18-month-old deaf girl, Opal Sandy, due to auditory neuropathy, marking a world-first achievement.
- The innovative one-time gene therapy treatment at Addenbrooke's Hospital significantly enhanced Opal's hearing, potentially paving the way for a cure for individuals with similar deafness.
- The approach involves introducing a functional gene copy to the ear, enabling communication between ear cells and the hearing nerve, with rapid noticeable improvements reported in Opal's case.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40307138)

- A gene therapy trial successfully restores hearing in a deaf girl, offering hope for future treatments in genetic hearing loss.
- Patients share experiences with surgeries, hearing aids, cochlear implants, and neural implants, sparking a debate on the controversial use of implants within the deaf community.
- Discussions revolve around medical advancements, gene editing, societal attitudes towards disabilities, ethics of curing deafness, reproductive freedom, genetic manipulation, and societal impacts of genetic technology advancements.

## [Mapping Hacker News Data: Sentiment Analysis and Trends](https://blog.wilsonl.in/hackerverse/)

- The author utilized text embeddings to analyze 40 million posts and comments from Hacker News, developing tools for interactive search, recommendations, and sentiment analysis.
- The analysis covers data fetching optimization, sentiment trends like positive sentiments on Rust comments, and challenges in managing memory on GPUs.
- Collaboration and feedback are welcomed for enhancing the app, with data and code available for exploration on GitHub.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40307519)

- The post delves into sentiment analysis on Hacker News comments, emphasizing the high frequency of negativity and the necessity for a sophisticated sentiment classifier.
- Users engage in discussions about various topics such as platform atmosphere, self-promotion, data analysis projects, GPU optimization, and UMAP integration.
- The thread also touches on technical subjects like dimensionality reduction, visualization tools, topic prevalence, alt account identification, content recommendation algorithms, and predictive modeling using RSS feed content, as well as proposing enhancements for the platform and sharing resources for in-depth analysis.

## [Datatype99: Safe Algebraic Data Types for C99](https://github.com/Hirrolot/datatype99)

- Datatype99 is a secure C99 library for algebraic data types, ensuring type safety, portability, predictability, and clear error messages in real-time streaming software.
- It offers syntax sugar for tagged unions, safe pattern matching, and guidelines for code organization, error handling, and data type optimization in C programming.
- The library supports Metalang99 macros, simplifying data manipulation and guaranteeing compiler-time safety.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40307098)

- The discussion on Github delves into the advantages and constraints of Algebraic Data Types (ADTs) and pattern matching in different programming languages.
- Users value ADTs for their flexibility and concise code, expressing dissatisfaction with languages lacking these features, such as Go.
- The conversation also explores unions in object-oriented programming, macros in languages like C, Rust, and Swift, and the introduction of pattern matching in Java, underlining the importance of syntax sugar and the benefits of utilizing Zig and Nim as C alternatives.

## [OpenAI's Partnership Pitch to News Publishers](https://www.adweek.com/media/openai-preferred-publisher-program-deck/)

- OpenAI is approaching news publishers with partnership opportunities via its Preferred Publisher Program, providing financial incentives and benefits for collaboration.
- The program seeks to enhance user engagement by utilizing AI-powered features such as branded links and content display products.
- However, OpenAI's data-scraping methods are under legal scrutiny, leading to some publishers taking legal action for alleged copyright infringement.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40310228)

- The focus is on OpenAI's leaked pitch deck for publisher partnerships, with discussions covering bias in AI models, productivity, and the impact of advertising integration.
- Debates include transparency, ethical concerns, and integrating ads into AI-generated content, along with ethical implications of data leaks and commercialization of AI technology.
- Users show skepticism towards advertising's effect on AI tech, future tech impact on society, language evolution, particularly referencing the term "deck" in presentations.

## [Sioyek: PDF Viewer Optimized for Textbooks & Research](https://github.com/ahrm/sioyek)

- Sioyek is a specialized PDF viewer tailored for textbooks and research papers, offering quick search, table of contents navigation, smart jumps, bookmarks, highlights, and multiple monitor support.
- It is accessible on Windows, macOS, and Linux via official packages, Homebrew Cask, and third-party packages for diverse Linux distributions.
- Users can contribute to Sioyek's development by donating and find installation guidance for different operating systems on their website.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40313143)

- Users are engaging in discussions about different PDF viewers and note-taking tools like Sioyek, Cahier, and Hypothesis, highlighting features they like and areas for improvement.
- Other tools such as Zotero, Obsidian, and Heptabase are also brought up in the conversation, expanding the range of options for users to consider.
- The dialogue covers topics like e-ink devices, compatibility with operating systems, and the significance of system requirements in selecting software, stressing the importance of choosing tools that align with individual needs and match the hardware and operating system.

## [PGMQ: Postgres-Based Lightweight Message Queue](https://github.com/tembo-io/pgmq)

- Postgres Message Queue (PGMQ) is a lightweight message queue akin to AWS SQS and RSMQ, leveraging Postgres as its foundation, supporting features such as "exactly once" message delivery and compatibility with Postgres versions 12-16.
- The documentation offers insights into installation, client libraries, SQL usage, and configuration settings for partitioned queues within PGMQ.
- PGMQ ensures message visibility using a visibility timeout and provides choices for message deletion or archiving.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40307454)

- The Github discussion debates using Postgres instead of SQS for achieving "exactly once" message delivery within a visibility timeout, discussing system failures affecting this guarantee and the challenges of distributed consensus.
- Participants talk about managing message delivery failures, the difference between delivery and processing assurance, and the effectiveness of Postgres as a message queue, mentioning unique identifiers and considering alternatives like RabbitMQ and Graphile Worker for job management.
- The focus is on streamlining architecture, minimizing complexity, and ensuring reliable message delivery in distributed systems.

## [Muddy: Collaborative Work Browser with AI Organization](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40309342)

- Muddy is a browser designed for work, aiming to assist users in organizing project files efficiently in one location.
- The browser leverages AI for automatic app organization and project timeline management, emphasizing collaboration and productivity.
- Muddy offers a free base product with paid subscriptions for teams, highlighting privacy as a crucial aspect, available for download on Mac or Windows.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40309342)

- Muddy is a collaborative browser designed for work, utilizing AI for organizing project files and enhancing team productivity.
- Users appreciate its timeline-based organization, messaging function, and personalized views, with paid subscription options.
- Future plans may include integrating an email client and AI tab organization, with discussions on technical requirements and privacy considerations ongoing.

## [ESP32 Drum Synth Machine: Lofi Wavetable Drum Synthesizer](https://github.com/zircothc/DRUM_2004_V1)

- The DRUM_2004_V1 ESP32 DRUM SYNTH MACHINE is a lofi drum synthesizer with a wavetable synth engine using the DZL Arduino library.
- It offers 16 sound polyphony and adjustable sound parameters like table, length, envelope, pitch, modulation, volume, pan, and filter.
- The hardware comprises a Lolin S2 Mini (ESP32 S2) with various components, including push buttons, a rotary encoder, an OLED display, and WS2812B LEDs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40309759)

- Members on Github are engaging in a discussion about an ESP32 Drum Synth Machine project, covering technical details, stability, design features, and resources for learning about synthesizers and DIY projects.
- Alternatives like Woovebox or Synthstrom Deluge are being recommended by some participants in the thread.

## [Security Breach: Microsoft PlayReady ECC Keys Compromised](https://seclists.org/fulldisclosure/2024/May/5)

- Security Explorations identified two attack scenarios enabling the extraction of private ECC keys in Microsoft PlayReady clients.
- Compromising these keys could allow mimicking a PlayReady client outside Protected Media Path, risking content key exposure on Windows.
- Emphasizes the need for continual security enhancements to safeguard against vulnerabilities in software-based content protection systems such as PlayReady.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40308261)

- The article delves into the vulnerability of Microsoft PlayReady, focusing on compromised client identity, particularly in safeguarding premium video content from piracy.
- It explores the hurdles of DRM strategies, encryption, and tools like Widevine, dissecting the ethical considerations and constraints of DRM in the fight against piracy.
- The discussion emphasizes the continuous discourse on DRM efficacy, its influence on user liberties, and the importance of seeking new approaches to counter piracy in today's digital era.

## [Exponential Data Needed for Multimodal "Zero-Shot" Generalization](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.04125)

- Multimodal models need significantly more pretraining data for marginal performance enhancements, questioning the concept of "zero-shot" generalization in computer vision and pattern recognition.
- The research introduces the "Let it Wag!" benchmark to underscore the necessity for additional studies on generalization abilities in extensive training scenarios.
- Understanding the impact of pretraining data frequency on model performance is crucial for advancing multimodal model research in computer vision and pattern recognition.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40307832)

- The discussions revolved around realizing zero-shot learning in AI models by training on data containing examples of the tested classes, highlighting the significance of comprehending language, vision, and reasoning in AI models.
- Various topics were explored, including the potential for another "AI winter," the efficacy of Large Language Models, and the utilization of synthetic data in model training, underscoring the challenges and constraints of current AI technologies.
- Challenges associated with achieving zero-shot generalization capabilities in image-to-text and text-to-image models were specifically addressed during the discussions.

## [FBI Email Leak Exposes Questionable Justification for Warrantless Wiretaps](https://gizmodo.com/leaked-fbi-email-warrantless-wiretaps-section-702-1851464520)

- Congress reauthorized the US warrantless wiretapping program, Section 702 in the FISA, influenced by national security concerns.
- An FBI leaked email to Wired uncovered plans to stretch the limits of the law by searching for Americans in intercepted communications, despite technically following the law's wording.
- Despite objections, the FBI successfully obtained the reauthorization, raising questions about accountability and the perception of being beyond legal boundaries.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40309957)

- The debate covers the effectiveness, ethics, and legality of surveillance programs, expressing concerns about lack of success reporting and potential government agency abuse of power.
- Discussions include interpretations of the Second Amendment, the role of state militias, and the balance between law enforcement efficiency and civil liberties.
- There are questions about the use of severe punishments for deterrence, the need for mass surveillance measures, and the transparency and accountability of government actions in surveillance and law enforcement.

## [World Nearing Peak Pollution Amid Regional Disparities](https://www.sustainabilitybynumbers.com/p/peak-pollution)

- Recent data indicates that the world has probably surpassed its peak pollution levels for local air pollutants, with emissions decreasing in wealthier nations such as the US and Europe, and China also experiencing a notable decline.
- In contrast, emissions are on the rise in low and lower-middle income countries, highlighting the importance of countries progressing through the "Environmental Kuznets Curve" swiftly to achieve lower pollution levels.
- The primary focus is on mitigating premature deaths from air pollution, especially in developing nations, without hindering economic progress and energy accessibility.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40313451)

- The discussion explores population growth, energy consumption, pollution, societal values, and technology's environmental impact, touching on declining birth rates, religious/secular beliefs on fertility, and consequences of peak coal and oil in global energy use.
- It emphasizes the necessity for sustainable practices, societal reforms, and global collaboration to tackle environmental issues such as climate change and pollution.
- The conversation underscores the interplay of human behavior, societal frameworks, and the environment, stressing the significance of informed decisions and united efforts for a sustainable future.

## [Spectacular Nanoscale Mapping of Brain Cortex Unveils Hidden Features](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-024-01387-9)

- Google scientists have successfully mapped a fragment of the human brain at nanoscale resolution, uncovering new features of neurons and connections in the brain cortex.
- The 3D map consists of 57,000 cells and 150 million synapses, offering unparalleled detail that may aid in understanding and treating psychiatric and neurodegenerative conditions.
- This monumental achievement in neuroscience, involving a preserved and metal-stained brain sample, has the potential to unveil novel insights into neural connections within the human brain.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40313193)

- The article discusses the intricate process of mapping the brain at a microscopic scale, emphasizing variations in neuron density between birds and mammals.
- It explores the potential impact of neuron density differences on stimuli response and processing speed, also comparing language models like GPT-4 to the human brain.
- Additionally, it touches on protein computation in cells, brain tissue imaging difficulties, the storage requirements for full brain scans, and expresses skepticism about fully grasping the complexities of the human brain and replicating its functions in artificial intelligence models.

## [Machine Learning in Elixir: A Scalable and Efficient Platform](https://cigrainger.com/elixirconf-eu-2024-keynote/)

- Machine learning in Elixir is now considered production-ready, thanks to its integration with the BEAM and OTP primitives, making it ideal for deploying machine learning models.
- The Nx framework, inspired by JAX, offers advantages in metaprogramming and pluggable backends, with features such as Nx.Serving for distributed, hardware-agnostic automatic batching utilizing Elixir's actor model of concurrency.
- Elixir's integration with Phoenix applications is seamless, employing libraries like Oban, Broadway, and FLAME for efficient processing and real-time updates, showcasing its scalability and efficiency for machine learning applications.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40307108)

- The discussion explores utilizing Elixir and BEAM languages such as Erlang for machine learning and software development, underscoring scalability, fault tolerance, and concurrent processing benefits.
- Elixir receives praise for its productivity and parallel processing capabilities, yet some raise concerns about typing problems and adoption hurdles.
- The debate contrasts Elixir's performance advantages with languages like Python and Java while highlighting challenges like documentation gaps, limited library ecosystem, and community backing.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Revisiting TCP_NODELAY in Modern Distributed Systems" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Revisiting%20TCP_NODELAY%20in%20Modern%20Distributed%20Systems&subheading=Friday%2C%20May%2010%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
