---
slug: '/2024/05/11'
---

# 2024-05-11

## [Remembering Jim Simons: Philanthropist and Mathematician Passes at 86](https://www.simonsfoundation.org/2024/05/10/simons-foundation-co-founder-mathematician-and-investor-jim-simons-dies-at-86/)

- Jim Simons, co-founder of the Simons Foundation, mathematician, investor, and philanthropist, has passed away at 86 in New York City.
- Known for his significant contributions to math, science research, and education, he and his wife Marilyn donated billions to various philanthropic causes.
- Simons, also the founder of Renaissance Technologies, a successful hedge fund, leaves behind a legacy in mathematics, investment, and philanthropy through the Simons Foundation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40320406)

- Renowned mathematician, investor, and philanthropist Jim Simons has passed away, leaving behind a remarkable legacy in mathematics research, finance, and charitable work via the Simons Foundation.
- Discussions are focusing on continuing his philanthropic endeavors, the achievements of his hedge fund Medallion, and the influence of RenTech's trading methods.
- Simons' profound impact on quantitative finance, the scientific realm, and his commitment to advancing mathematics and science are widely acknowledged and commended, despite some accompanying criticisms.

## [Jam: Web Debugger Revolutionizing Bug Reporting for Non-engineers](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40318542)

- Jam is a product targeting non-engineers struggling with filing bug tickets, offering a tool merging video recording with development tools for creating shareable bug reports.
- Users can enjoy instant bug replays, automatic reproduction steps, and more to streamline the debugging process.
- The product has been active for 2 years, providing a free version with an optional paid tier for extra features, while the team is actively seeking input for enhancements and hiring engineers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40318542)

- The ex-Cloudflare team introduced Jam, a web debugger tool enhancing bug reporting for non-engineers, integrating dev tools, video recording, and automatic repro steps for efficiency.
- User feedback on Jam's homepage messaging and demands for broader browser support, like in Safari, were solicited, alongside raised concerns about privacy and data security in bug reporting.
- Discussions delve into improving bug tracking, security measures, and potential business prospects in the bug replay tool sector, comparing functionalities with tools like Replay.io and distinguishing session replay from detailed debugging tools, emphasizing effective bug reporting for swift issue resolution.

## [Introducing Popover API Baseline 2024: A Developer's Tool](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API)

- The Popover API Baseline 2024 is a new tool allowing developers to generate popover content on web pages, commonly used for action menus, notifications, and form suggestions.
- Popovers can be created using HTML attributes or JavaScript, always remaining non-modal, with options for declarative or programmatic creation, along with new styling features.
- Developers can utilize various HTML attributes and interfaces to manage popover elements, including methods for displaying, concealing, and toggling popovers, triggering events when popover status changes.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40317740)

- The Popover API offers a new method in web design for creating custom tooltips and context menus without relying on external libraries like CSS Anchor Positioning.
- Debates are ongoing concerning the accessibility of the title attribute, anchor versus relative positioning in CSS, security implications, and the overall impact on web functionality and user experience.
- Despite pending browser support, discussions include implementing popovers in browsers, security concerns with Progressive Web Apps, technical capabilities of Firefox, user preferences for pop-ups versus popovers, and feedback on the Popover API integration.

## [Superfile: Terminal File Manager Guide & Installation](https://github.com/MHNightCat/superfile)

- The document offers guidance on installing and utilizing the superfile tool, covering common operations, various installation methods, themes, plugins, custom themes, hotkeys, contributing to the project, and acknowledging supporters and contributors.
- It highlights the importance of using a Nerd font, outlines installation prerequisites, and urges users to show support by starring the project on Github.\

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40318714)

- Users are discussing the benefits of terminal file managers, focusing on text-based user interfaces (TUIs) and command line interfaces (CLIs) for efficiency and customization options.
- The advantages highlighted include keyboard navigation, organization, and efficiency in TUIs, contrasting with GUIs' limitations in resource consumption and customization.
- The conversation includes topics like software development, open-source projects, keybindings in applications, comparisons of file managers, and suggestions for enhancements in this tech sphere.

## [Fosstodon.org removes all network features from KeePassXC Debian](https://fosstodon.org/@keepassxc/112417353193348720)

- Fosstodon.org is a member of the Mastodon decentralized social network, allowing users to search for posts with filters and engage with content from other servers.
- The site offers details on server statistics, a directory of profiles, privacy policies, and other Mastodon features.
- Users can register an account to follow profiles or hashtags, like, share, and respond to posts within the platform.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40320166)

- The Debian maintainer's choice to eliminate network functionalities from KeePassXC has sparked debates on software operations, maintainer duties, and user expectations in open-source circles.
- Users are expressing confusion and frustration due to these adjustments, emphasizing the need to strike a balance between security, ease of use, and user control in password management tools.
- Recommendations for alternative packaging approaches and improved communication channels between maintainers and users are being proposed in the ongoing conversations.

## [Exploring Frustrations with Thread Networks](https://overengineer.dev/blog/2024/05/10/thread/)

- Dennis Schubert shares his journey of working on over-engineered projects and delving into low-power electronics, specifically highlighting Thread networks.
- He expresses his challenges with the Thread Group's strict licensing and membership prerequisites, hindering hobbyists from using the technology within legal boundaries.
- Despite reaching out to the Thread Group for clarification, he has not yet received a response, underscoring the complexities faced by enthusiasts in the tech community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40326269)

- The Thread technology discussion highlights challenges for hobbyists and businesses due to licensing and patent restrictions by the Thread Group, impacting innovation and collaboration.
- Alternative technologies such as LoRa and Zigbee are explored concerning affordability and transparent pricing, amid concerns about Thread's barriers to entry without membership.
- The conversation includes the Google v. Oracle court case about API copyright and fair use, reflecting the broader struggle of managing intellectual property in the technology sector.

## [Minimalist Approach to OpenBSD Desktop Customization](https://x61.ar/log/2024/05/06052024135732-openbsd_desktop.html)

- Gonzalo shares their minimalist approach to using OpenBSD on their desktop, detailing tools, color scheme, terminal setup, key bindings, and window manager preferences.
- Emphasizes thoughtful changes over blindly following tutorials, underlining the significance of customization.
- Mentions laptop model and contact information.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40318804)

- Users are discussing running OpenBSD and Debian on various hardware, such as Macs and older Thinkpads, focusing on minimalistic operating systems and security in browsers within unikernels.
- The conversation evaluates the efficiency of Linux and BSD for daily use, critiques software like Zoom, and explores alternatives, along with the use of tiling window managers and GUI file managers on lightweight setups.
- Some express frustrations with glitchy Linux desktops, while others highlight OpenBSD's security despite performance trade-offs, sparking a debate on balancing security, performance, and functionality in OS choices.

## [One Minute Park: Explore the World's Parks in 60 Seconds](https://oneminutepark.tv/)

- One Minute Park allows users to view one-minute videos of parks worldwide and contribute their own to fill all 1440 minutes in a day.
- Users record 60-second videos of park scenes with multiple layers of activity for the project, aiming for a stable shot without a tripod, in .mp4 format.
- The initiative, led by Elliott Cost, sustains itself through donations and sponsorships.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40323785)

- One Minute Park is a platform for sharing one-minute videos showcasing various parks, offering a serene experience, particularly when viewed silently.
- Users admire its ease of use and inclusivity, drawing comparisons to similar platforms, sparking discussions on privacy laws related to filming in public areas.
- Some users engage in conversations, sharing their insights and experiences on this topic within the community.

## [The Truth About Food Expiration Dates in America](https://www.vox.com/22559293/food-waste-expiration-label-best-before)

- The article delves into the problem of food waste in the U.S., highlighting the confusion surrounding expiration dates, the significant economic, and environmental consequences of discarding food, and obstacles in donating to the underprivileged.
- Emphasizes educating consumers on date labels, relying on their senses, and promoting standardized labeling as crucial steps to minimize food waste.
- It mentions efforts by companies such as Misfits Market and Imperfect Foods in addressing food waste and encourages backing Vox's journalism by making financial contributions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40318123)

- The conversation delves into the accuracy of food expiration dates, debating whether consumers should focus on buying the freshest items to minimize waste or consider aspects like cost-effectiveness and storage duration.
- Various viewpoints are shared on the positioning of fresh produce in stores, the trustworthiness of expiration labels, and differing stances on food safety guidelines and consumption practices.
- It highlights the significance of using logic to assess food safety, challenges related to food wastage, and the environmental effects of recycling versus landfilling.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Remembering Jim Simons: Philanthropist and Mathematician Passes at 86" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Remembering%20Jim%20Simons%3A%20Philanthropist%20and%20Mathematician%20Passes%20at%2086&subheading=Saturday%2C%20May%2011%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
