---
slug: '/2024/05/17'
---

# 2024-05-17

## [Fake Apple Employee #10 badge sold on eBay](https://cabel.com/2024/05/16/the-forged-apple-employee-badge/)

- An eBay auction for a fake Apple Employee #10's badge was quickly debunked by internet users, despite the seller's forged documentation, selling for $946 before the fraud was exposed.
- It is crucial to exercise caution when purchasing items claiming to be part of Apple's history and always authenticate the items before making a purchase.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40384013)

- The discussion explores the text quality of mechanical and electric typewriters, reasons for preferring typewriters over modern tech, and experiences with different typewriters.
- Participants share insights on authenticity, forgery techniques, and concerns when buying potentially fake items online, like employee badges.
- The conversation emphasizes trust, verification, and security measures' importance, including chargeback consequences and vulnerabilities in current security systems.

## [Protecting Customer Data in Slack's AI Training](https://slack.com/trust/data-management/privacy-principles?nojsmode=1)

- Slack prioritizes customer data protection in the context of machine learning and artificial intelligence, ensuring data confidentiality across workspaces.
- They implement technical controls to prevent unauthorized access and allow customers to opt out of data usage for training global models.
- Privacy-preserving techniques like channel recommendations and search results are executed while upholding confidentiality agreements outlined in customer agreements and the Privacy Policy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40383978)

- Concerns arise over Slack's use of customer data for AI training without explicit consent, posing potential privacy risks like data leakage.
- Discussions include exploring self-hosted chat platforms as alternatives and debating the significance of opting out of such services.
- Users debate managing multiple communication tools, legal obligations on data consent, limitations of AI models, diverse training data, end-to-end encryption, and company privacy policies' reliability.

## [Hands-on Course: Learn Rust with 100 Exercises](https://rust-exercises.com/)

- 100 Exercises To Learn Rust" is a practical course for beginners aiming to teach the fundamentals of the Rust programming language, such as syntax, type system, standard library, and ecosystem, through hands-on practice.
- The course offers around 100 exercises to help learners progressively enhance their understanding, following a "learn by doing" approach, suitable for both individual and classroom learning, with solutions provided on GitHub."
- Authored by Luca Palmieri, the course provides a structured curriculum with exercises in a companion repository and a workshop runner tool for verifying solutions, geared towards enabling learners to engage in small to medium-sized Rust projects."

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40385536)

- The discussion evaluates different resources for learning Rust, including Rustlings and 100 Exercises to Learn Rust, focusing on accessibility, syntax, and challenges.
- It compares Rust's foundation in ML, type system, ownership model to languages like C and Java, sharing tips for mastering Rust and practicing Go and Zig.
- The conversation highlights Rust's benefits over C and C++, its use in web development, and Microsoft's incorporation of Rust for performance enhancements, emphasizing the accessibility and ease of use in programming languages like Rust.

## [Llama 3 Model with NumPy Enhancements for Efficient Transformer Performance](https://docs.likejazz.com/llama3.np/)

- The Llama 3 model, developed in NumPy in 2024, integrates GQA and RoPE #1 to enhance performance.
- It leverages RoPE and KV Cache within a transformer model to boost efficiency, reaching 33 tokens/s on an M2 MacBook Air.
- The model's source code, trained by Karpathy, is accessible on GitHub for in-depth exploration of the architecture and optimization methods.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40378499)

- The focus is on implementing Llama 3 in pure NumPy, showcasing its simplicity in contrast to frameworks like Torch.
- The code is praised for its clarity and simplicity, drawing comparisons to other models such as GPT2 and emphasizing the significance of learned weights in Llama 3.
- The discussion covers technical nuances, comparisons to different implementations, licensing issues, and the hurdles in training data for AI models.

## [Exploring Data Visualizations with D3: Versions 6 & 7](https://www.d3indepth.com/)

- "D3 in Depth" delves into D3 versions 6 and 7, guiding users in crafting data visualizations employing Chart.js, Leaflet, and React.
- The book explores HTML, SVG, CSS, and JavaScript basics, covering selections, data joins, scale functions, and maps, offering insights into developing bespoke visualizations with D3.js.
- Regarded positively for its lucid explanations and strong foundational principles, the book is well-received by reviewers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40378791)

- Users discuss Observable Plot, a D3 team's library, on the D3 in Depth website for simplifying plot and graph creation, highlighting D3's complexity in contrast with its flexibility.
- Alternative tools such as Tableau, VisX, and Python plotting libraries are suggested for comparison, with some users appreciating D3's ability to dynamically visualize data on webpages.
- Despite its challenges, D3 is recognized as a powerful and valuable tool for creating accurate data representations.

## [Winamp Opens Source Code for Worldwide Collaboration](https://about.winamp.com/press/article/winamp-open-source-code)

- Winamp will open its source code on September 24, 2024, welcoming developers worldwide to collaborate on its iconic Windows player.
- The initiative aims to leverage the global community's skills and ideas to advance the software, with a focus on new mobile players and addressing Windows users' needs.
- While developers can contribute to Winamp, the company will retain ownership and decide on official innovations. More info is available at about.winamp.com/free-llama.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40383029)

- Winamp is opening its source code due to financial struggles, enabling community-led maintenance, sparking conversations on nostalgia, alternative media players like WACUP and QMMP, and comparisons with music players such as foobar2000.
- Users are discussing software development, APIs, and Winamp's influence on career growth, expressing mixed feelings of excitement and doubt regarding the source code release, suggesting alternative players, and exploring potential AI functionalities.
- The move highlights Winamp's significance in the tech community and raises anticipation for potential innovations from opening its source code amidst financial challenges.

## [Egypt's Pyramids Built on Ancient Nile Branch](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-024-01449-y)

- A recent geological survey unveiled the Ahramat Branch, an ancient part of the Nile River near the Giza pyramid complex in Egypt, potentially used by ancient Egyptians for pyramid construction.
- The discovery supports the belief that the Nile was closely situated to crucial archaeological sites, shedding light on ancient transportation methods.
- Evidence of the Ahramat Branch indicates that ancient Egyptians probably employed boats for material transportation, showcasing their practicality in pyramid construction.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40379488)

- Recent research suggests that Egypt's pyramids were built near a long-lost branch of the Nile for easier material transportation.
- Debates include theories on internal ramps, natron usage, and societal beliefs of ancient rulers regarding pyramid construction.
- Discussions cover the Pharaoh's immortality belief, Graham Hancock's alternative theories, and conspiracy theories surrounding ancient civilizations and archaeological discoveries.

## [Sprint, T-Mobile Merger Raises Corruption Concerns](https://www.techdirt.com/2024/05/16/report-sprint-t-mobile-merger-immediately-killed-wireless-price-competition-in-u-s/)

- Allegations suggest Trump regulators may not have read deal impact reports, raising concerns about unethical behavior and corruption.
- The top antitrust enforcer allegedly collaborated with companies to secure government approval for deals, indicating potential misconduct within the Trump administration.
- Implications of corruption and unethical conduct among officials in the Trump administration are brought to light by the comment.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40379028)

- The article discusses the merger of Sprint and T-Mobile in the U.S., highlighting criticisms of reduced wireless price competition and Sprint's struggles due to debt and mismanagement.
- It covers challenges with Sprint's WiMax 4G network, the transition to 5G, and implications of Softbank's acquisition of Sprint on the U.S. cellular data market.
- Various viewpoints on industry consolidation, pricing, competition, technology, and service quality are examined, along with user experiences with different cellphone providers and plans.

## [Optimizing ChatGPT-4o for Problem-solving: Text vs. Images](https://www.sabrina.dev/p/chatgpt4o-vs-math)

- The author experiments with OpenAI's ChatGPT-4o to assess its problem-solving skills using text prompts, images, and prompt engineering techniques.
- Results indicate that text-only prompts with prompt engineering deliver the most precise outcomes, whereas incorporating images occasionally causes confusion.
- The author finds that ChatGPT-4o excels when provided with text-only prompts and utilizing prompt engineering strategies.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40379599)

- The text discusses testing ChatGPT-4o's math problem-solving abilities, highlighting the importance of clear instructions and verification for accuracy.
- Limitations of language models in logical reasoning are pointed out, along with suggestions for improved communication and understanding, questioning the reliance solely on AI for mathematics.
- Various user experiences with ChatGPT and GPT-4 Turbo are shared, addressing challenges and limitations of AI models in solving intricate math problems, including concerns about the reliability and the use of calculators in AI-generated responses.

## [Students' Quieter Leaf Blower Innovates Noise Reduction](https://hub.jhu.edu/2024/05/14/quieter-leaf-blower/)

- Johns Hopkins University engineering students created a quieter leaf blower, cutting noise levels by almost 40% and getting rid of irritating frequencies.
- The patent-pending design wowed sponsors and is projected to hit stores in two years, showcasing the students' dedication to refining the product over months.
- This innovation could not only enhance loud appliances but also indicates the students' potential to impact other products positively.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40377201)

- The debate focuses on electric vs. gas leaf blowers for landscaping, discussing environmental impact, practicality, and effectiveness.
- Advocates suggest banning gas leaf blowers to cut pollution, balancing considerations of noise levels and air quality.
- Mentioned are challenges of battery-powered tools, potential quieter tech advances, and ideas for regulations, incentives, and alternative yard maintenance methods.

## [Neovim 0.10: Enhanced Features & Community Engagement](https://gpanders.com/blog/whats-new-in-neovim-0.10/)

- Neovim 0.10 brings a variety of new features like a default colorscheme, improved terminal features, LSP inlay hints, and a Tree-sitter query editor.
- Enhancements in commenting, diagnostic mappings, and default LSP mappings are also part of this update.
- The release emphasizes community engagement, ongoing discussions for enhancing LSP and Tree-sitter features, integration of nvim-lspconfig, and a merchandise store to support project development.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40378218)

- Users share their experiences and preferences using Neovim, focusing on Lua for plugin authoring, tools like telescope and fzf, and the anticipation for inlay hints.
- Neovim 0.10 introduces new features such as multicursor and visual block editing, prompting discussions on customizing editors and productivity-enhancing distributions like LazyVim and AstroNvim.
- Concerns arise regarding GUI choices, Vim compatibility, performance, color schemes, and integrating Neovim with Intellij in a virtual machine.

## [F\* – Innovating Proof-Oriented Programming Language](https://www.fstar-lang.org/)

- F\* is a proof-oriented programming language developed by Microsoft Research, Inria, and the community, supporting functional and effectful programming with dependent types and proof automation.
- Used in projects like Project Everest for secure communication software, F* has offshoot projects such as cryptographic libraries like HACL* and EverCrypt, focusing on security, cryptography, and formal methods.
- F\*'s implementations cover data integrity monitoring, reversible circuits, and more, with active use in teaching and research, accompanied by online resources for learning and community engagement.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40377685)

- The text delves into the programming language F\*, highlighting its significance in program verification and its application in projects like Project Everest for developing verifiable TLS implementations.
- It discusses the challenges and prospects of utilizing F\* for business applications in the future, along with experiences with F# in diverse work settings for verification and general programming tasks.
- The conversation covers topics such as naming conventions in software projects, utilizing calculus in manual code writing, and the necessity of meticulous proofing in coding, exploring multiple facets of programming languages and best practices in software development.

## [Author's Frustration with Google's AI Search Impact](https://aftermath.site/google-ai-search-god-no-why)

- The author criticizes Google's AI search for delivering unwanted information and causing delays in search results, despite efforts to disable it, resulting in stress and annoyance.
- Continuous encounters with AI-generated content burden the author and have a negative impact on their daily life.
- The author finds Google's AI search feature frustrating and believes it disrupts their routine.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40380639)

- The discussion delves into Google's search experience strategy and how AI influences user satisfaction and ad revenue.
- Concerns are raised about ad prioritization, Google's market dominance, and skepticism towards relying excessively on algorithm-powered search engines like Google and OpenAI.
- Criticisms encompass Google's ad-centric approach, perceived lack of innovation, and its adverse effects on user experience, prompting discussions on alternatives such as Firefox, DuckDuckGo, and Ecosia, alongside privacy, data protection, and AI transparency concerns.

## [Deutsche Bahn Unveils MetaWindow Noise Reduction Technology](https://www.railtarget.eu/technologies-and-infrastructure/deutsche-bahn-introduces-metawindow-a-gamechanger-in-noise-reduction-for-railways-8449.html)

- Deutsche Bahn has unveiled MetaWindow, a revolutionary noise reduction technology utilizing a distinctive geometric design to improve acoustic efficiency on railways.
- The transparent noise barrier offers noise insulation levels of 34-37 decibels and maintains a transparency of 72%, expected to accelerate project timelines by mitigating objections from local residents, despite higher material expenses.
- Intelligence agencies issue alerts due to an increase in Russian railway sabotage acts in Europe, emphasizing the importance of railway security.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40383263)

- Deutsche Bahn has implemented MetaWindow technology to combat noise pollution from railroads, triggering discussions on graffiti on noise barriers and passenger cars.
- The debate revolves around whether graffiti constitutes art or vandalism, its effects on urban environments, and the efficacy of graffiti removal.
- Some advocate for enhancing German train infrastructure and service quality, expressing dissatisfaction with current reliability levels.

## [Efficient New Algorithm for Counting Distinct Elements](https://www.quantamagazine.org/computer-scientists-invent-an-efficient-new-way-to-count-20240516/)

- Computer scientists introduced the CVM algorithm, leveraging randomness to estimate distinct elements in data streams efficiently with minimal memory retention.
- The algorithm, suitable for various applications like tallying unique words or users logging in, employs randomization and iterative selection rounds for precise estimates in low-memory environments.
- This novel approach marks a substantial progression in addressing the long-standing distinct elements problem in computer science research for more than four decades.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40379175)

- Computer scientists have created a new algorithm like HyperLogLog to estimate the number of elements in a set from a stream accurately while consuming minimal memory.
- Discussions cover "The Book" concept in mathematics, various counting techniques, and the application of algorithms like HyperLogLog for estimating a large number of distinct objects.
- Conversations also debate on estimating unique elements through hashtables or approximation techniques, emphasizing simplifying complex issues and recognizing potential limitations of novel computer science algorithms.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Fake Apple Employee #10 badge sold on eBay" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Fake%20Apple%20Employee%20%2310%20badge%20sold%20on%20eBay&subheading=Friday%2C%20May%2017%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
