---
slug: '/2024/05/18'
---

# 2024-05-18

## [Bend: High-Level Language for GPU Computing with HVM2](https://github.com/HigherOrderCO/Bend)

- Bend is a high-level programming language optimized for massively parallel hardware, such as GPUs, offering fast object allocations, higher-order functions, recursion, and continuations.
- It runs on the HVM2 runtime, enabling near-linear speedup based on core count, without requiring explicit parallel annotations or manual thread management.
- Bend, created by HigherOrderCO.com, streamlines parallel programming by efficiently executing complex algorithms on GPUs and emulating diverse concurrent systems.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40390287)

- The Bend programming language and its HVM2 implementation are being discussed, focusing on GPU performance versus Python and Mojo.
- Users are evaluating benchmarks, linear scaling, compiler efficiency, and Bend's potential applications, with suggestions for clearer disclaimers, single-core optimization, and enhanced code generation.
- The automatic parallelization feature of Bend receives both praise and skepticism regarding its practicality and effects on the development community, with concerns raised about technical obstacles and performance assertions in the project.

## [OpenAI's Departures Raise Transparency Concerns](https://www.vox.com/future-perfect/2024/5/17/24158478/openai-departures-sam-altman-employees-chatgpt-release)

- OpenAI unveiled ChatGPT 4o, capable of conversing in a human-like voice, marking a significant advancement in AI technology.
- The resignation of co-founder Ilya Sutskever and team leader Jan Leike triggered speculation regarding OpenAI's future direction and their reasons for departing.
- Former employees are bound by stringent nondisclosure agreements, raising concerns about OpenAI's transparency and accountability as it strives to create artificial general intelligence.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40393121)

- Former OpenAI employees are facing restrictive off-boarding agreements, limiting their ability to criticize the company and risking the loss of vested equity.
- Concerns are raised about ethical leadership, specifically related to CEO Sam Altman, along with debates on the fairness and legality of these agreements.
- Discussions also cover challenges in AI development, environmental impacts, and the need to align AI with human values, touching on employee rights, equity agreements, and legal clause enforcement.

## [Non-Euclidean Doom: Exploring Impact of Incorrect Pi (2022)](https://media.ccc.de/v/mch2022-236-non-euclidean-doom-what-happens-to-a-game-when-pi-is-not-3-14159-)

- The summary highlights NewsRSS, podcast feeds, and the upcoming MCH2022 event.
- A talk at the event will delve into the repercussions of utilizing incorrect mathematical values, specifically pi, in the source code of the video game Doom.
- It will discuss how changes in trigonometric functions and constants impact gameplay and share optimization techniques from the game's development.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40389267)

- The post explores non-Euclidean space in video games using Duke Nukem 3D and Doom as examples, emphasizing Binary Space Partitioning's constraints and potentials in Doom's level design.
- It discusses the utilization of portals to achieve non-linear geometry, embedding graphs in torus, and portal-based rendering engines, highlighting the influence of non-Euclidean geometry on gameplay.
- The article also touches on adjusting mathematical constants in game code, the significance of π in gaming, and implementing radians in movement code.

## [Ex-OpenAI staff face aggressive no-criticism contract](https://x.com/KelseyTuoc/status/1791584357184127269)

- When quitting a job, a comprehensive release contract might include clauses for confidentiality, arbitration, nonsolicitation, nondisparagement, and noninterference agreements.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40394778)

- Former OpenAI employees are required to sign a lifetime no-criticism agreement to keep their shares in the company.
- The information first surfaced on x.com and has elicited debates on platforms like Hacker News.
- For a detailed overview, refer to the extended coverage on Vox.

## [Toon3D: Creating 3D views of hand-drawn cartoons](https://toon3d.studio/)

- Toon3D is a novel technique for recovering the 3D structure of hand-drawn cartoon scenes through piecewise-rigid deformation optimization.
- It reconstructs camera poses and dense geometry from non-geometrically consistent images, allowing the generation of new viewpoints of cartoon scenes.
- The method involves depth prediction, image labeling, alignment, a user-friendly annotation tool, camera pose estimation, image deformation, and Gaussian refinement to create a coherent 3D structure for visualizing cartoons from varied angles.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40389445)

- The discussion explores the application of 3D animation in cartoons, citing examples from popular shows like Futurama and Disney's Oliver & Company.
- It addresses the challenges encountered by animators when developing 3D spaces and the integration of AI and machine learning to transform 2D artwork into 3D models.
- The potential influence of AI on 3D modeling, the artistic decisions involved in crafting video scenes, and the utilization of new technologies for image rendering are all highlighted, along with the ongoing debate surrounding the use of AI in animation.

## [A Promising Breakthrough: HIV Vaccine Generates Powerful Antibodies](https://corporate.dukehealth.org/news/trial-hiv-vaccine-triggered-elusive-and-essential-antibodies-humans)

- A study at Duke Human Vaccine Institute discovered that an HIV vaccine candidate elicited antibodies capable of combating various virus strains in humans.
- The vaccine focuses on a steady area on the HIV envelope and effectively generated broadly neutralizing antibodies with only two doses in a limited clinical trial.
- Additional research is necessary to enhance the immune response, but these findings hold potential for the advancement of a successful HIV vaccine, supported by funding from the National Institutes of Health and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40390820)

- The discussion delves into the intricate nature of biological processes and mathematical principles, drawing parallels between biology and alien technology.
- Topics include the role of animations in comprehending membrane proteins, potential HIV treatments through CRISPR technology, and debates on various HIV prevention methods and vaccine development.
- Concerns are raised about false positives in HIV tests, the activation of antibodies against the virus, the necessity for a comprehensive strategy to address mutations, and challenges related to accessing clinical trial information.

## [Decoding the HIV Life Cycle: An Animated Journey](https://vimeo.com/260291607)

- The molecular animation illustrates how HIV infects a T cell, turning it into a viral factory, in collaboration with HIV researchers for the Science of HIV project.
- Created by Janet Iwasa and Grace Hsu with music by Joshua Roman, the animation can be downloaded and shared on the Science of HIV website.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40393107)

- The post reviews an animated video illustrating the HIV life cycle, prompting mixed reactions of intrigue and unease regarding the intricate details of molecular biology.
- Users exchange recommendations for comparable videos and documentaries focusing on molecular interactions, enriching the discussion with additional resources.

## [EquityVal Pro: Create Custom Financial Models for Any Stock](https://www.useequityval.com/)

- EquityVal Pro enables retail investors to generate, store, and exchange valuation models for various publicly traded companies, aiding in well-informed investment choices.
- Users have the option to personalize Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) models, utilize precise data, and archive their models for additional assessment on a dashboard.
- The platform includes advanced Pro functionalities tailored for well-known stocks such as Apple, Google, Tesla, and Nvidia.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40392548)

- Users engage in discussions on utilizing a financial modeling tool for stock valuation, sharing experiences, concerns, and improvement suggestions.
- Topics cover realistic assumptions, Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) models' effectiveness, AI integration in stock valuation, and debates on index investing.
- Feedback on the tool's functionality, proposed enhancements, regulatory concerns, and ethical considerations in investment decision-making are actively exchanged among participants.

## [Introducing Experts.js: Creating Multi AI Agent Systems with OpenAI's Assistants API](https://github.com/metaskills/experts)

- Experts.js simplifies creating and deploying OpenAI's Assistants API, enabling the formation of a Panel of Experts system by connecting multiple AI agents.
- The tool provides advanced features like referencing files, long instructions, integration with 128 tools, and efficient file search capabilities for building Multi AI Agent Systems with complex orchestration workflows.
- It supports developing reusable tools, customization, OpenSearch queries, thread management, and examples like streaming responses from an Express route and building a Vector Search Assistant.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40395107)

- The post explores the integration of OpenAI's Assistants API in multi AI agent systems, focusing on cost calculation challenges related to large PDF attachments.
- Users are cautioned about potential hidden expenses and are encouraged to monitor their API usage to manage costs effectively.
- Various API usage strategies, alternatives, communication interface issues, billing concerns, and GDPR compliance challenges are addressed, along with the complexities of employing ensemble models and multi-agent systems in tasks like document retrieval and customer assistance.

## [Beekeeper's $2M Honey Crop Destroyed Due to Disease](https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/business/516930/beekeeper-steven-brown-furious-over-destruction-of-2m-honey-crop)

- Beekeeper Steven Brown from Springbank Honey in North Canterbury was devastated after being instructed to burn over 10,000 beehives and equipment due to American Foulbrood disease.
- Brown suggested reconsidering the pest management strategy to include alternatives like vaccination, estimating a loss of $2 million.
- The management agency defended the decision to burn, citing it as the most effective method, as beekeepers in New Zealand must adhere to regulations and destroy infected hives within seven days.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40389548)

- Beekeepers are grappling with the American Foulbrood disease, causing hive destruction and financial setbacks.
- Challenges include treatment methods, insufficient government backing, insurance disputes, and implications for honey market access.
- Debates encompass alternative treatments like vaccines, irradiation, antibiotic use, and insurance availability in New Zealand, underscoring the significance of hygiene, disease prevention, and insurance for risk management in beekeeping.

## [Improving Fine-Tuning Efficiency with LoRA Method](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.09673)

- The paper introduces the Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) method for efficiently fine-tuning large language models in programming and math, showcasing improved regularization and model diversity, despite performing slightly below full fine-tuning in most cases.
- It offers insights into best practices for utilizing LoRA in fine-tuning and delves into the variances in perturbation rank when comparing LoRA to full fine-tuning methods.
- The study falls under the categories of Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, and Computation and Language.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40389421)

- The debate focuses on the naming confusion of a research paper "LoRA Learns Less and Forgets Less," addressing low-rank adaptation for large language models, distinct from the LoRa wireless protocol.
- Users engage in conversations about search engine mix-ups, trademark concerns, and authorship complexities related to academic papers.
- Discussions cover the technical aspects and impacts of low-rank adaptation in machine learning models, highlighting the advantages and obstacles of this strategy.

## [Reconsidering Dual Axis Charts for Connected Scatterplots](https://blog.datawrapper.de/dualaxis/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40391614)

- The article delves into the utilization of dual-axis charts in data visualization and journalism, outlining the advantages and drawbacks of this method.
- It emphasizes the significance of clarity, context, and selecting appropriate chart styles to convey data effectively to viewers, touching upon the debate around commencing scales at zero and possible misinterpretations.
- Participants are divided, with some endorsing dual-axis charts for specific situations, while others express worries about potential misleadings and propose different strategies.

## [ILGPU: Harness C# and F# for High-Performance GPU Programming](https://github.com/m4rs-mt/ILGPU)

- ILGPU is a high-performance JIT compiler designed for GPU programs in .Net-based languages, combining the flexibility of C++ AMP with the performance of CUDA.
- The library offers auxiliary functions, high-level algorithms, and has an active community on Discord, along with sample projects and build guidelines for beginners.
- To work with ILGPU, ensure you have Visual Studio 2022 and a .NET 6.0 SDK toolchain, and be prepared for potential XUnit/Visual Studio challenges during testing, providing Source Link and Symbol support for debugging.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40393873)

- ILGPU enables writing GPU programs in C# and F#, offering a high-level approach to enhance performance optimization.
- ComputeSharp is a Windows-exclusive alternative for GPU programming, complementing ILGPU.
- The ongoing debate between low-level languages (C/C++) and higher-level languages for GPU programming has valid arguments, with ILGPU leveraging abstract stack-based bytecode to target CUDA and OpenCL efficiently.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Bend: High-Level Language for GPU Computing with HVM2" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Bend%3A%20High-Level%20Language%20for%20GPU%20Computing%20with%20HVM2&subheading=Saturday%2C%20May%2018%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
