---
slug: '/2024/05/19'
---

# 2024-05-19

## [Whistleblower David McBride advocates from jail](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VrFs2_uhz-o)

- Whistleblower David McBride is currently incarcerated for advocating improved whistleblower protections and defense integrity.
- Supporters have the option to contribute to his legal fund on GoFundMe to assist with his fight against the government.
- McBride's case highlights the ongoing importance of supporting individuals who expose misconduct and corruption for the greater good.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40398002)

- The conversation focuses on the excessive classification of data by both governments and individuals, suggesting laws to oversee this practice and weighing the fine line between national security and public interest.
- Notable whistleblowers like David McBride unveiling purported war crimes by Australian soldiers in Afghanistan spark debates on government transparency, accountability, and democratic values.
- Concerns are raised on military ethics, leadership, safeguarding whistleblowers, and upholding national security amidst leaked information on alleged misconduct.

## [Epic 20-Acre Capture the Flag Game: A Memorable Experience](https://www.ntnbr.com/61/)

- Nathan Brown organizes a massive 20-acre game of Capture the Flag, inspired by a YouTube video, with detailed planning and unique rules for an exciting experience.
- The event includes strategies, outcomes, and discussions, deemed a success, leading to plans for future games to recreate a memorable experience for all participants.
- The story focuses on the planning, execution, and aftermath of the game, highlighting the efforts to ensure a fun and engaging event for everyone involved.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40400139)

- The post delves into organizing and participating in large-scale games such as Capture the Flag, exploring childhood game memories, parental perspectives, police engagement, and logistical hurdles in public settings.
- It emphasizes the fun, camaraderie, and nostalgic value of these games while critiquing excessive police intervention and its effects on children's growth.
- Various game adaptations are discussed, from real-life renditions like Pac-Man to online versions such as Tagpro, alongside community dialogues and suggestions for hosting similar events in different urban areas.

## [Unveiling the Original Open: A Glance into Open-Source Origins](https://floor796.com/)

- The "original Open" term pertains to the initial or first iteration of a program, software, or project that is open-source.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40400648)

- Floor796 is a collaborative animated project showcasing life on the 796th floor of a space station, filled with references to movies, games, anime, and memes, with clickable characters linking to their origins.
- Created by a sole individual as a hobby, the project is accessible on the website floor796.com, providing an interactive editor, drawing process videos on YouTube, multilingual options, and supplementary project details.
- The project offers a unique and engaging experience by combining various influences and allowing users to explore its content interactively.

## [Learning Calculus with Julia: Graphical, Numerical, and Algebraic Focus](https://jverzani.github.io/CalculusWithJuliaNotes.jl/)

- "Calculus with Julia" is a guide for learning calculus through the Julia programming language, emphasizing graphical, numerical, and algebraic approaches.
- The notes leverage Julia for numerical computations and showcase the integration of computer algebra systems, aiming to grasp concepts without diving deep into programming intricacies.
- The content includes essential computational concepts for tackling calculus problems, featuring interactive questions for practice, presented in a Quarto book format compilable into a PDF, with open invitations for contributions and feedback.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40401343)

- The debate centers on the suitability of the book "Calculus with Julia" for high school students familiar with Python, emphasizing concerns about the author's explanation clarity.
- It explores the argument regarding the preferred programming language for teaching calculus, especially focusing on Julia and Python with SymPy.
- Discussions extend to the evolution of mathematical notation, math's role in computer science, and the utilization of languages like Mathematica and Julia in academic and engineering fields, noting Julia's benefits over Matlab and LuaJIT in different industrial and research environments.

## [Big Tech Resists EU's Digital Markets Act, Faces Fines](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2024/05/big-tech-eu-drop-dead)

- The European Union's Digital Markets Act (DMA) aims to empower users by requiring tech gatekeepers to permit third-party app stores and interoperable gateways while prohibiting self-preferencing and enhancing privacy regulations.
- Big Tech firms such as Apple and Meta are pushing back against complying with the DMA, potentially fostering increased competition, accountability, and user and worker control over profits in the tech industry.
- The EU is enforcing the DMA through investigations and imposing fines on companies that fail to adhere to the regulations, emphasizing the significance of compliance in fostering a more competitive and consumer-centric tech environment.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40404296)

- The dialogue addresses various subjects concerning the European Union, prominent tech firms, regulatory hurdles, and privacy worries.
- Key highlights involve gig worker categorization, EU rules' effects on tech corporations, Brexit's influence, user data protection, domination by Apple and Google, the Digital Markets Act, app store guidelines, penalties for violations, and GDPR implications.
- It also explores using open standards to combat big tech control, GDPR compliance difficulties for startups, and how exclusive agreements affect privacy and market competition.

## [A Trustworthy, Open-Source 64-bit RISC-V Computer](https://www.contrib.andrew.cmu.edu/~somlo/BTCP/)

- Gabriel L. Somlo aims to develop a reliable, free, Linux-compatible, self-hosting 64-bit RISC-V computer using open-source tools and compilers on an FPGA to reduce the risk of hardware backdoors.
- The project focuses on transparent HDL and software sources for enhanced trustworthiness, differing from initiatives such as lowRISC that incorporate proprietary components.
- Somlo's work features the creation of yoloRISC, a demonstration SoC running on open-source tools designed for the Lattice ECP5 5G Versa development board.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40399987)

- The article delves into the complexities of integrating backdoors into hardware, focusing on FPGAs and RAM, raising concerns about national security implications.
- It highlights the challenges of incorporating hidden CPUs, proposes potential solutions, and shares insights from enthusiasts developing self-hosted RISC-V machines with FPGA boards.
- The discussion covers FPGA core speed, optimization, debugging on sluggish systems, FPGA utilization in development, costs related to FPGAs, and advancements in open-source toolchains for FPGAs.

## [Microsoft's Emissions Surge Amid AI Expansion](https://www.pcmag.com/news/microsofts-emissions-spike-29-as-ai-gobbles-up-resources)

- Microsoft's 2024 Sustainability Report highlights a rise in emissions and water usage attributed mainly to new technologies such as generative AI.
- The company's investment in OpenAI and integration of GPT-4 into Bing pose challenges in achieving sustainability objectives.
- Efforts are ongoing to mitigate waste, adopt renewable energy, and address water consumption from data centers by capturing and reusing cooling water while striving to reduce reliance on freshwater resources.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40403524)

- Microsoft's emissions have surged by 29%, leading to discussions on their sustainability commitment, including topics like greenwashing and renewable energy.
- The debate encompasses concerns about the efficacy of existing initiatives in curbing emissions and combating climate change, emphasizing the role of technology in environmental sustainability.
- Various aspects such as carbon credits, nuclear energy, and AI technology are part of the environmental impact discussion related to Microsoft's emission increase.

## [Device "Peanut Butter Spinner" Eases Mixing](https://cdaringe.com/peanut-butter-spinner/)

- The Peanut Butter Spinner, invented by the author, effortlessly stirs natural peanut butter using a USB-powered device with a motor, gearbox, and other components.
- Despite not achieving perfect mixing, the device simplifies the manual stirring process, enhancing user experience.
- This innovation reduces the effort required to mix peanut butter effectively, catering to individuals seeking convenience in food preparation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40401060)

- The post explores techniques like packaging redesign, upside-down storage, and stabilizing additives to prevent oil separation in natural peanut butter.
- Discussions cover debates on refrigeration needs, alternative storage options, mixing in jars, homemade peanut butter, and proper handling techniques.
- Suggestions include using tools like a Vitamix, silicone spatula, and lid-based mixer for peanut butter jars, as well as unconventional methods like a rock tumbler for mixing and flavoring oil.

## [Seven Potential Dyson Sphere Candidates: Challenges and Exploration](https://www.centauri-dreams.org/2024/05/18/seven-dyson-sphere-candidates/)

- The article delves into Dyson spheres, focusing on using mid-infrared thermal emissions to find potential candidates and discussing the challenges in filtering out contamination sources through data analysis.
- Seven possible Dyson sphere candidates are pinpointed, prompting the need for further exploration to unveil their essence, amid ongoing skepticism about their prevalence and existence.
- It debates the enthusiasm for seeking extraterrestrial intelligence, suggesting advanced civilizations might prioritize existential matters over expansion, alongside pondering solar energy utilization and references to Arthur C. Clarke's monolith concept.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40397823)

- The discussion delves into various topics like the anomaly of Przybylski's Star, intelligent alien species hiding, defense against hostile civilizations, von Neumann probes' feasibility, resource competition for interstellar travel, and risks of interacting with extraterrestrial civilizations.
- Topics also entail the Dark Forest Theory, relativistic kill vehicles, Dyson Swarms construction, fusion technology potential, and challenges of building advanced energy structures in space.
- The conversation studies the potential and boundaries of advanced technologies in energy production and future space colonization.

## [Riven: A Unique and Immersive Gaming Experience](https://www.filfre.net/2024/05/riven/)

- The Miller brothers developed the successful game Myst and its sequel Riven, known for their high-quality and immersive gameplay.
- Riven, with intricate puzzles and visually stunning 3D graphics, attracted serious gamers and casual players alike.
- Despite some criticism for focusing more on world-building than traditional gameplay, Riven garnered high sales and a loyal fan base for its unique and immersive experience.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40404054)

- Users on filfre.net are engrossed in discussing the game Riven, sharing trivia, memories, and opinions on its development, writing, and worldbuilding.
- A debate ensues on the importance of old games and finding a balance between nostalgia and innovation in the gaming sector.
- Discussions extend to potential remakes, VR adaptations, and upcoming releases of classics such as Myst and Riven, sparking interest among enthusiasts.

## [Exploring Computer Architecture and OS: Insights from Usenet](https://yarchive.net/comp/index.html)

- The article delves into computer architecture, programming, Linux kernel development, and operating system technicalities, discussing processors, caches, algorithms, benchmarks, memory management, and more.
- Featured are insights from prominent figures like Linus Torvalds, detailing a broad spectrum of topics from power consumption to file systems, offering in-depth views on kernel development and system calls.
- Covering a wide array of subjects, the article provides a comprehensive overview of the intricate details and contributions within the tech industry, ideal for those interested in deepening their understanding of these domains.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40404440)

- The discussion highlights Usenet's potential as a decentralized communication platform compared to modern social media.
- It examines the benefits and challenges of Usenet, alongside the evolution of email, software sandboxing, and internet commercialization.
- Participants also consider reviving the NNTP protocol and reflect on Usenet's historical importance in software distribution.

## [Reviving Frozen Human Brain Tissue Marks Major Milestone](https://bgr.com/science/frozen-human-brain-tissue-was-successfully-revived-for-the-first-time/)

- Scientists have achieved the first damage-free revival of frozen human brain tissue through the MEDY technique, potentially transforming neurological research and brain development studies.
- The groundbreaking research, spearheaded by Zhicheng Shao at Fudan University in Shanghai, China, focused on freezing and thawing brain tissue samples while preserving their functionality, as outlined in Cell Reports Methods.
- This advancement opens up possibilities for enhanced exploration of brain development and hints at the potential for preserving entire brains through cryopreservation in the future.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40400591)

- Researchers have revived frozen human brain tissue, sparking discussions on consciousness, brain function, quantum effects, and the possibility of mind uploading.
- Conversations also covered sleep paralysis, sharing experiences, and speculating on causes, amidst debates on cryonics, organ preservation, and ethical concerns of life extension through medical tech.
- Concepts of immortality and the repercussions of eternal life were debated, with references to science fiction literature.

## [Michelle's List: Transparent Landlord Reviews](https://www.michelleslist.com/)

- "Michelle's List" is a free platform for anonymous reviews of landlords, focusing on positive feedback about good management, maintenance response, and property satisfaction.- Users can share their experiences and read reviews without disclosing their identities.- The site offers a valuable resource for individuals looking for insights into landlord performance and property quality.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40403569)

- Michelle's List, a free landlord review site, is under scrutiny for its anonymity claims, sparking discussions on enhancing privacy and potential repercussions for renters.
- Tenants face challenges in the rental market against landlords' dominance and high prices, with limited political enthusiasm for reform.
- The power disparity between landlords and tenants is evident globally, with debates on rental market struggles, transparency in the taxi sector, and the need for platforms for anonymous tenant feedback.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Whistleblower David McBride advocates from jail" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Whistleblower%20David%20McBride%20advocates%20from%20jail&subheading=Sunday%2C%20May%2019%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
