---
slug: '/2024/05/20'
---

# 2024-05-20

## [Critique of NASA's Artemis Program: High Costs, Complexity, and Inefficiency](https://idlewords.com/2024/5/the_lunacy_of_artemis.htm)

- The article critiques NASA's Artemis program for its complexity, high costs, and inefficiency compared to the Apollo missions, despite technological advancements.
- Key criticisms include the high costs and outdated technology of the Space Launch System (SLS), design challenges with the Orion spacecraft, and the added complexity and risk of using Near-Rectilinear Halo Orbit (NRHO).
- The ambitious timeline of returning humans to the moon by 2026 is deemed unrealistic, with potential delays and escalating costs, risking perpetual postponement of the manned lunar landing.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40410404)

- The discussion compares the Apollo mission's innovative solutions for lunar travel with modern space exploration challenges, highlighting complexities and risks.
- It critiques NASA's inefficiencies, bureaucratic practices, and outdated technology, contrasting them with SpaceX's innovative approaches.
- The conversation emphasizes political and financial constraints on NASA's Artemis program, advocating for more cost-effective robotic missions and exploring motivations and benefits of space exploration.

## [3M Suppressed Chemist's Findings on Toxic PFOS in Human Blood for Decades](https://www.propublica.org/article/3m-forever-chemicals-pfas-pfos-inside-story)

- Kris Hansen, a chemist at 3M, discovered in 1997 that PFOS, a harmful chemical, was present in human blood, but her research was halted by superiors who assured her of its safety.
- Decades later, the EPA mandates the removal of PFAS chemicals from drinking water, revealing that 3M knew about PFOS's toxicity since the 1970s but continued production.
- Despite a $12.5 billion settlement to address PFAS contamination, the full cost and responsibility remain unresolved, with Hansen now volunteering in environmental conservation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40414316)

- 3M executives convinced scientist Johnson to conceal harmful findings about PFOS chemicals, highlighting a culture that discourages addressing such concerns.
- The discussion critiques 3M's secrecy and ethical issues, advocating for independent research, stronger regulations, and severe penalties for corporate misconduct.
- The text underscores the need for improved whistleblower protections and systemic reforms to hold corporations and executives accountable for unethical actions.

## [Operation CHARM: Universal Access to Car Repair Manuals for All Major Brands](https://charm.li/)

- Operation CHARM offers car repair manuals for various vehicle brands, such as Acura, Audi, BMW, Chevrolet, Ford, Honda, and Toyota.
- The initiative's goal is to make service manuals easily accessible to the public.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40409588)

- Operation CHARM (charm.li) provides pirated car repair manuals, primarily from ALLDATA, up to 2013, as newer manuals are subscription-based and harder to archive.
- The service is more common in North America but lacks coverage for certain models, especially non-US vehicles, and faces criticism for copyright infringement and incomplete information.
- Modern car manuals emphasize part replacement over detailed troubleshooting, making repairs more challenging for casual mechanics due to the need for specialized equipment.

## [Uber Successfully Migrates Trillion-Entry Ledger Data to Custom LedgerStore](https://www.uber.com/blog/migrating-from-dynamodb-to-ledgerstore/)

- Uber migrated over a trillion ledger data entries from DynamoDB to its custom-built LedgerStore (LSG) to enhance cost efficiency, simplify architecture, and improve performance.
- The migration involved 1.2 PB of immutable records and 0.5 PB of secondary indexes, ensuring data completeness and correctness without disrupting operations, achieving 99.99% accuracy.
- The process utilized Apache Spark for handling large data volumes and addressed challenges like code bugs and RPC timeouts with rate limiters and conservative rollout strategies, completing the two-year migration without downtime.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40413891)

- Migrating Uber's 1.7 petabytes of ledger data from DynamoDB to SQLite is impractical due to SQLite's scalability and high write volume limitations.
- The discussion critiques Uber's cost-saving strategies, questioning the feasibility and hidden costs of custom solutions versus commercial cloud services like DynamoDB.
- The conversation highlights the importance of efficient data storage, the complexities of migrating enterprise systems, and the need for thorough documentation and reliable benchmarks to attract customers.

## [Hertz Overcharged Tesla Renters for Gas Due to System Error, Prompting Refunds](https://www.thedrive.com/news/hertz-charging-a-tesla-renter-for-gas-was-not-an-isolated-incident)

- Hertz has been mistakenly charging customers for gasoline in electric vehicle (EV) rentals, specifically Teslas, due to a "systems error" that lasted over a year.
- The company has corrected the issue and is offering refunds and credits to affected customers, but their customer service has been criticized for being hard to reach.
- These billing errors and customer service challenges have led to dissatisfaction and could potentially deter future EV rentals from Hertz.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40410341)

- Hertz has been accused of charging Tesla renters for gas, highlighting broader questionable billing practices in the car rental industry, including exorbitant fees for services like EZ Pass without clear disclosure.
- Customers face difficulties contesting these charges due to confusing invoices and fine print, leading to frustrations and avoidance of these companies; issues include incorrect charges, slow refunds, and high-pressure sales tactics.
- The discussion emphasizes the need for stronger regulations and consumer protections, suggesting stricter penalties for corporate misconduct, enhanced consumer protection laws, and potential recourse through small claims court or legislative action.

## [Pushing Raspberry Pi 5 to 3.3 GHz: Minimal Gains Despite Voltage Hack](https://jonatron.github.io/randomstuff/pivolt/)

- The author attempted to surpass a 3.14 GHz overclock on a Raspberry Pi 5 but found the system unstable at 3.3 GHz.
- To achieve this, the author circumvented the Raspberry Pi's firmware-imposed 1V limit by modifying system memory and creating a service to manage CPU frequency and voltage.
- Despite reaching a higher clock speed, the performance gains were minimal, suggesting the effort may not be worthwhile.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40409718)

- A user named jonatron overclocked a Raspberry Pi 5 to 3.14 GHz, surpassing the previous record of 3.3 GHz set by Jeff Geerling.
- Discussions highlighted the optimal default speed of 2.4 GHz for the BCM2712 chip, due to diminishing returns and increased power consumption at higher speeds.
- The conversation included debates on cooling methods, performance comparisons with older CPUs, and the lack of hardware acceleration support in the Linux mainline kernel for the Raspberry Pi 5.

## [Bridging the Gap: Why Job Seekers and Employers Struggle to Connect](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40415646)

- The author discusses the paradox where job seekers and employers both struggle to find suitable matches, with job postings often being either too specific or too broad.
- They highlight the high costs of job posting platforms and the risks associated with hiring the wrong candidates, particularly for startups.
- The author seeks input on effective solutions and experiences from others to bridge the gap between job listings and actual job requirements.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40415646)

- The job market faces a paradox where job seekers struggle to find employment, and employers can't find suitable candidates due to mismatched job postings and unrealistic expectations.
- Structural unemployment in tech is worsened by skills mismatches and ineffective hiring practices, including algorithmic filters and non-standardized curriculums.
- Solutions proposed include retraining, simplifying interviews, focusing on essential skills, and improving networking, while critiquing the use of IQ tests, offshoring, and the need for better employee training and retention strategies.

## [Critical Vulnerability in PDF.js Allows Arbitrary JavaScript Execution](https://codeanlabs.com/blog/research/cve-2024-4367-arbitrary-js-execution-in-pdf-js/)

- Codean Labs discovered CVE-2024-4367, a vulnerability in Mozilla's PDF.js that allows arbitrary JavaScript execution when a malicious PDF is opened, posing significant security risks.
- This vulnerability affects all Firefox users and can lead to XSS (Cross-Site Scripting) attacks and potential native code execution in Electron apps.
- The issue can be mitigated by updating PDF.js to version 4.2.67 or higher, checking dependencies, and adjusting security settings; it was disclosed to Mozilla on April 26, 2024, with fixes released by mid-May 2024.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40414718)

- CVE-2024-4367 is a security vulnerability in PDF.js that allows arbitrary JavaScript execution, potentially leading to Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) attacks.
- The discussion emphasizes the complexities of web security, particularly with client-side JavaScript and untrusted inputs, and suggests isolating PDF viewers on different origins.
- Participants debate the security implications of using PDF.js, focusing on XSS risks, and recommend implementing robust Content Security Policies in applications embedding PDF.js, such as Electron apps.

## [Essential C Programming Practices for Readability and Maintainability](https://github.com/mcinglis/c-style)

- The author emphasizes prioritizing correctness, readability, simplicity, and maintainability in C programming over speed, advocating for clear and maintainable code before optimization.
- Key practices include using modern C standards (preferably C11), avoiding non-standard extensions, using spaces over tabs, keeping lines under 79 characters, and maintaining consistent American English in code and documentation.
- The guide advises against complex conditionals, switch statements, and macros that obscure control flow, recommending the use of `const` for immutability, avoiding unsigned types, and preferring immutable data structures and pure functions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40409956)

- The author of "C Style: My favorite C programming practices" discusses their evolving views on coding style, emphasizing mechanistic enforcement and real-time feedback for better code quality.
- Key topics include balancing readability and performance, avoiding premature optimization, and making context-dependent decisions in embedded programming.
- The discussion covers coding standards, such as the 80-character line limit, tabs vs. spaces, and best practices like using Clang sanitizers, managing dependencies, and minimizing variable scope.

## [Inside the Making of "Guberniya": A 64k Intro from Revision 2017](https://www.lofibucket.com/articles/64k_intro.html)

- Pekka Väänänen's article on lofibucket.com discusses the creation of the 64k intro "Guberniya," presented at the Revision 2017 demo party, providing an introduction to the demoscene and a detailed post-mortem of the project.
- The project was developed by a six-person team using C++, OpenGL, and various rendering techniques over four months, with influences from "Half-Life 2," Icelandic landscapes, and the film "Koyaanisqatsi."
- Technical highlights include the use of Visual Studio 2013, a custom keyboard hook for live shader editing, GNU Rocket fork for animation, raymarching with the `hg_sdf` library, and a custom GPU-based Discrete Fourier Transform for time-stretching audio.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40414565)

- The discussion centers on 64k intros, a form of digital art constrained to a 64-kilobyte file size, emphasizing the creative process over technical explanations.
- Participants note a shift in the demoscene community towards smaller intros (4k/1k) due to the significant effort required for 64k intros, suggesting recording or live-streaming the creation process to capture the creative journey.
- The conversation highlights evolving expectations and improved tools, making the production of high-quality 64k intros increasingly demanding.

## [Refining Responsible Scaling Policy to Prevent AI Misuse and Ensure Safety](https://www.anthropic.com/news/reflections-on-our-responsible-scaling-policy)

- The "Policy Reflections on our Responsible Scaling Policy" post details the development of the Responsible Scaling Policy (RSP) to prevent safety failures and misuse of advanced models, emphasizing robust safety standards and iterative policy extension.
- Key commitments include identifying and testing "Red Line Capabilities," implementing the ASL-3 Standard for rigorous safety, and forming an interdisciplinary team to integrate practices from fields like nuclear security and cybersecurity.
- The organization aims to foster industry collaboration and inform government efforts on risk management frameworks, with plans to discuss these at the AI Seoul Summit.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40411115)

- Anthropic's "Responsible Scaling Policy" aims to address high-risk AI capabilities, such as bioweapons and cybersecurity threats, by emphasizing future risks and stringent containment measures.
- Critics argue the policy is too lenient and basic, calling for stricter standards, improved AI autonomy, and a balance between innovation and safety.
- The debate highlights differing views on AI safety, transparency, and ethical implications, with some stressing responsible development and public understanding, while others believe AI risks are exaggerated for marketing or regulatory purposes.

## [Exploring Generative Art: The Intersection of Algorithms, Nature, and Creativity](https://www.amygoodchild.com/blog/what-is-generative-art)

- Generative art involves creating artwork through autonomous processes, using elements like randomness, rules, and natural systems, with PRNGs introducing variability and true randomness sourced from natural phenomena.
- The text highlights pioneers like Vera Molnar and explores procedural generation, rule-based art, and emergent behaviors, citing examples like Sol LeWitt’s instructions and Conway’s Game of Life.
- The balance of control between artist and machine is emphasized, with examples of data-driven and AI art, and the article encourages further exploration and innovation in the evolving field of generative art.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40410603)

- The discussion on generative art explores various tools, historical contexts, and coding languages like Swift and JavaScript, highlighting platforms such as Context Free Art and AARON.
- Contributors debate the monetization of generative art through NFTs, balancing artistic enjoyment with commercial viability, and discuss the role of randomness and algorithms in art creation.
- The conversation also addresses the impact of AI on traditional art fields, the potential for open-source solutions, and the need for human connection and narrative in generative outputs.

## [GitHub Script 'ffmpeg-english' Captures Video Frames to JPG Every Second](https://github.com/dheera/scripts/blob/master/ffmpeg-english)

- The GitHub repository "dheera/scripts" features a script called "ffmpeg-english" with 50 lines of code.
- The repository has garnered 8 forks and 45 stars, indicating moderate community interest and engagement.
- It includes comprehensive features like issues, pull requests, actions, projects, and a wiki, along with the latest commit history and file metadata.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40410637)

- The GitHub discussion focuses on capturing images from `/dev/video0` every second using `ffmpeg`, with users suggesting alternatives like GitHub Copilot CLI and expressing security concerns about AI-generated commands.
- Users recommend tools like `aichat` and `subprocess.Popen` for safer execution, and debate the balance between convenience and security in AI command generation.
- The conversation highlights the importance of understanding and verifying commands, whether AI-generated or human-written, and discusses integrating AI into command-line interfaces with precautions like Docker containers and user confirmations.

## [Correcting Text Perspective Distortions Using Transformed Ellipses: A Simplified Approach](https://mzucker.github.io/2016/10/11/unprojecting-text-with-ellipses.html)

- The article introduces a simplified method for correcting perspective distortions in text photographs using transformed ellipses, inspired by a complex method from Carlos Merino-Gracia et al.
- The approach involves thresholding and connected component labeling to isolate letters, then using homographies (an 8-parameter matrix) to adjust the image so that letter shapes have uniform areas.
- The method, which includes perspective, rotation, and skew transformations, is effective and the code is available on GitHub, though it is not state-of-the-art.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40409757)

- The article discusses a method for correcting perspective distortion in text using linear algebra, matrix multiplication, and the Hough transform.
- This technique does not require identifying word or page boundaries, which some find complex but potentially useful in various scenarios.
- The conversation includes debates on the method's complexity, effectiveness, and alternatives for text rectification, especially in images.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Critique of NASA's Artemis Program: High Costs, Complexity, and Inefficiency" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Critique%20of%20NASA's%20Artemis%20Program%3A%20High%20Costs%2C%20Complexity%2C%20and%20Inefficiency&subheading=Monday%2C%20May%2020%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
