---
slug: '/2024/05/21'
---

# 2024-05-21

## [Scarlett Johansson Addresses OpenAI "Sky" Voice Controversy](https://twitter.com/BobbyAllyn/status/1792679435701014908)

- Scarlett Johansson released a statement about the OpenAI situation, which was shared by journalist Bobby Allyn on Twitter on May 20, 2024.
- The involvement of a high-profile celebrity like Johansson has drawn significant public attention to the issue.
- The specifics of Johansson's statement and the nature of the OpenAI situation were not detailed in the provided text.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40421225)

- Scarlett Johansson declined OpenAI's request to use her voice for their "Sky" feature, but they used a cloned version without her consent in a demo, leading to its removal after legal intervention.
- This incident has sparked criticism of CEO Sam Altman for unethical practices and raised concerns about transparency and accountability in tech leadership.
- The controversy underscores the necessity of consent and the potential legal and PR risks of using a celebrity's likeness without explicit permission.

## [Enlightenmentware: A Programmer's Journey Through UNIX, Git, Emacs, and Bazel](https://mmapped.blog/posts/28-enlightenmentware.html)

- The blog post delves into "enlightenmentware," software that significantly shapes a programmer's system design approach.
- The author shares their journey with UNIX, version control systems like Git, and their transition from Vim to Emacs, highlighting Emacs' extensibility and Lisp-based architecture.
- They emphasize the educational value of the Boost Graph Library, their preference for Google's Blaze and Bazel build systems, and advocate for simple, powerful tools that solve fundamental problems.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40419856)

- The discussion highlights various software tools and operating systems, focusing on their roles in code verification, optimization, and interactive learning, with tools like Compiler Explorer, Jupyter Notebooks, and Python Tutor noted for their educational benefits.
- Users compare Windows, Linux, and macOS for technical tasks, discussing usability and customization, while Docker and Podman are praised for ease of setup and minimal system impact, and NixOS is recognized for its customization and configuration management despite a steep learning curve.
- The conversation covers a range of software development tools, including Buck2, Docker, JUnit, and TypeScript, and emphasizes the importance of innovative tool usage and finding the right tools for individual needs and preferences.

## [EU's "Chat Control" Surveillance Proposal Rejected Over Privacy Concerns](https://mullvad.net/en/why-privacy-matters/going-dark)

- The "Going Dark" initiative, led by EU Commissioner Ylva Johansson, proposed extensive surveillance measures using AI to monitor all communications under the guise of combating child sexual abuse.
- The proposal, known as "Chat Control," faced significant opposition from bodies like the European Parliament’s Data Protection Board and the UN Human Rights Council for violating human rights laws, leading to its rejection.
- The European Court of Justice ruled against accessing encrypted communications, highlighting concerns about privacy, mass surveillance, and government overreach.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40426701)

- A proposed EU bill seeks to increase surveillance by wiretapping citizens' messages, while exempting politicians and police, raising significant privacy concerns.
- Critics compare the bill to Orwell's "1984," warning of unchecked authority and the erosion of privacy, especially given the indispensability of smartphones and social media for essential services.
- The debate includes issues of end-to-end encryption (E2EE), government overreach, AI misuse, data security, and the balance between privacy and security, reflecting a libertarian perspective skeptical of government intentions.

## [Understanding UI Density: Designing Modern Interfaces for Optimal Information Flow](https://matthewstrom.com/writing/ui-density/)

- Modern websites and applications in 2024 are less visually dense compared to those from the 2000s, meaning they appear more spread out.
- UI (User Interface) density involves not just the visual appearance but also the amount of information conveyed over time and how design decisions enhance the software's value.
- Examples of visually dense interfaces include Bloomberg’s Terminal, which displays extensive market data, and Craigslist, known for its numerous plain links and simple search features.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40428386)

- The article addresses the challenges of designing user interfaces (UIs) for various screen densities, particularly with technologies like React, and highlights issues such as poor scaling and scrolling on smaller screens.
- It critiques the misuse of frameworks like React, emphasizing the need for better design practices to ensure accessibility and usability across all devices, and discusses the balance between dense information and user comprehension.
- The discussion contrasts Western and Asian app designs, critiques unethical UI practices, and stresses the importance of balancing functionality and readability, while also exploring the challenges of responsive web design (RWD) and its impact on user experience.

## [Edward Burtynsky's "Shipbreaking" Captures Haunting Beauty in Industrial Recycling](https://www.edwardburtynsky.com/projects/photographs/shipbreaking)

- Edward Burtynsky's "Shipbreaking" project examines the dismantling of large vessels, inspired by the decommissioning of single-hulled ships after the Exxon Valdez oil spill.
- The photographs, taken in India and Bangladesh, portray the industrial process as a form of ultimate recycling, highlighting the environmental impact of industrial activities.
- Burtynsky's work suggests a haunting beauty in these scenes, implying that nature can eventually reclaim landscapes altered by human activity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40424304)

- The thread discusses the shipbreaking industry, highlighting harsh working conditions, environmental impact, and ethical dilemmas.
- Users share personal anecdotes, historical comparisons, and media references, including the game "Hardspace: Shipbreaker" and works by photographers and authors.
- Broader issues such as global labor exploitation, environmental regulations, and international waste management complexities are also explored.

## [NoTunes: Stop Apple Music from Auto-Launching on macOS](https://github.com/tombonez/noTunes)

- noTunes is a macOS app that prevents iTunes or Apple Music from launching, with a new update (version 3.2 or later) required due to an expiring certificate.
- The app can be installed via Homebrew or direct download, and it offers features like launching at startup, toggling on/off via the menu bar, and setting a replacement app or website.
- noTunes is available under the MIT License, making it free and open-source for users and developers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40426621)

- NoTunes is a macOS app designed to prevent Apple Music from launching automatically, catering to Spotify users frustrated by Apple Music's default behavior.
- The discussion reveals broader frustrations with Apple's ecosystem, such as automatic app launches, intrusive features, and limited user control, leading to issues like unwanted autoplay and data sharing concerns.
- Users also discuss hardware preferences, recommending alternatives to Asus and HP laptops due to durability issues, and express mixed feelings about macOS, Windows, and Linux, highlighting macOS's lack of built-in clipboard history and poor Bluetooth device management.

## [Chameleon: Meta's Breakthrough in Mixed-Modal AI Integration](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.09818)

- The paper "Chameleon: Mixed-Modal Early-Fusion Foundation Models" introduces Chameleon, a model family integrating images and text using an early-fusion, token-based approach.
- Chameleon excels in tasks like visual question answering, image captioning, and mixed-modal generation, achieving state-of-the-art performance in image captioning and surpassing Llama-2 in text-only tasks.
- It competes with and often exceeds the performance of larger models such as Mixtral 8x7B, Gemini-Pro, and GPT-4V in human evaluations, marking a significant advancement in unified multimodal document modeling.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40423082)

- Meta's new multi-modal large language model, Chameleon, has made significant advancements in addressing tokenization and competitive dynamics between modalities since its inception five months ago.
- The development of Chameleon, which requires substantial computational resources, raises concerns about the sustainability of open-source AI due to high costs and corporate dependency.
- Potential solutions to these challenges include improved computing efficiency, model specialization, and distributed training, with ongoing comparisons to other models like Google's Mirasol3B and discussions on unified versus separate modality processing.

## [Understanding Xterm: User Input and Terminal Mechanics (Part 1)](https://kevroletin.github.io/terminal/2021/12/11/how-terminal-works-in.html)

- This blog series explores the mechanics of modern terminals and command-line tools on Linux, focusing on xterm and tty features through hands-on experimentation and debugging.
- It covers user interaction with xterm, shell communication, background processes, access control, and keyboard input processing, using tools like `strace`, `showkey`, and `xev` for debugging.
- The series includes practical examples for tracing system calls, analyzing terminal behavior, and understanding non-printable characters, UTF-8 encoding, and ASCII/multi-byte character identification, aimed at those developing command-line tools.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40419325)

- The article "How terminal works. Part 1: Xterm, user input" delves into the functionality of terminal emulators, focusing on Xterm and user input handling.
- It covers historical aspects, such as all-caps logins due to early terminal limitations, and the evolution of terminal protocols, highlighting their complexities and limitations.
- The discussion includes perspectives on whether terminals should remain simple text-based tools or evolve to support more complex interactions, with mentions of modern solutions like GUI-based systems and extensions in terminals like Kitty.

## [CADmium: Open-Source Browser CAD with Rust and WebAssembly Seeks Community Support](https://mattferraro.dev/posts/cadmium)

- CADmium is an open-source, browser-based CAD program in development, seeking community support via Discord.
- The project aims to use a 2D physics simulator for constraint solving and introduces "Truck," a modern b-rep kernel in Rust, offering memory safety and web compatibility.
- CADmium proposes a Resilient Modeling Strategy (RMS) for better design reusability and seeks help with Rust programming, computational geometry, Three.js improvements, and funding.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40428827)

- CADmium is a new browser-based, local-first CAD program using the Truck parametric kernel, aiming to provide an open-source alternative to commercial CAD software like SolidWorks.
- The project has generated excitement due to Truck's potential to overcome limitations of other kernels, but concerns exist about a possible shift to a subscription model and maintaining a local-first approach.
- Discussions highlight the complexities of implementing fillets, edge reference tracking, and the potential of Rust and WASM for CAD applications, with significant innovation seen in open-source CAD software like FreeCAD.

## [Erlang/OTP 27: Markdown Docs, Triple-Quoted Strings, and Enhanced Profiling Tools](https://www.erlang.org/blog/highlights-otp-27/)

- Erlang/OTP 27 introduces a revamped documentation system using Markdown and ExDoc, enhancing consistency by embedding documentation in source code.
- Key features include triple-quoted strings for easier multi-line text handling, sigils for better string literal management, a new JSON module, process labels, and enhanced SSL client-side stapling.
- Additional updates include multiple trace sessions, native coverage support, a new profiling tool (tprof), new timer functions, ETS (Erlang Term Storage) enhancements, and the deprecation of archives due to performance issues.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40424982)

- Erlang/OTP 27 is highlighted for its superior concurrency model, lightweight processes, and robust error handling, making it efficient for distributed software compared to traditional languages like C++, C#, and Python.
- The new Erlang 27 documentation, adopting Elixir’s system and integrating with languages like Gleam, is positively received, with the adoption of ExDoc seen as a significant improvement.
- Despite its strengths, Erlang's lack of static typing is noted as a potential drawback for performance and maintainability in larger projects.

## [Reimagining Learning: AI, Project-Based Education, and the Future of Personalized Tutoring](https://andymatuschak.org/hmwl/)

- The text emphasizes the importance of immersive, meaningful activities over traditional learning methods, advocating for a balance between discovery-based and structured learning.
- It highlights the potential of AI to provide personalized, context-rich educational support, integrating real-time guidance and dynamic media to enhance learning and memory retention.
- Ethical concerns about AI in education are raised, advocating for a student-driven, exploratory approach, as discussed in Andy Matuschak's talk "How might we learn?" at UCSD Design@Large.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40424536)

- The discussion critiques the limitations of current AI, particularly large language models like GPT-4, in educational settings due to high error rates and misleading outputs.
- It explores the benefits and drawbacks of spaced repetition systems like Anki for memory retention, noting their effectiveness for memorization but potential shortcomings in fostering deep understanding.
- The conversation advocates for more intuitive, human-centric approaches in education and software design, emphasizing the need for technology to empower and connect people, while also addressing concerns about data privacy.

## [Gifski: High-Quality GIFs with Advanced Encoding and Integration Options](https://github.com/ImageOptim/gifski)

- Gifski is a high-quality GIF encoder based on pngquant, converting video frames into GIFs with efficient cross-frame palettes and temporal dithering, resulting in thousands of colors per frame.
- It is primarily a command-line tool but can be compiled as a C library for integration into other applications, with executables available for download or installation via Homebrew or Rust's cargo.
- The tool requires exporting video frames as PNGs, offers resizing and quality adjustment options, and supports dynamic library creation with cargo-c, licensed under AGPL 3 or later with alternative licensing options.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40426442)

- Gifski is an optimized GIF encoder known for its ease of integration and efficient default settings, reducing the need for extra optimization steps.
- Users value Gifski's ability to build static binaries, making it convenient for app inclusion.
- The discussion includes a debate on using GIFs versus modern formats like WebM and animated PNGs, with some users favoring the latter for better quality and features, though GIFs remain popular for specific use cases like GitHub readmes.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Scarlett Johansson Addresses OpenAI 'Sky' Voice Controversy" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Scarlett%20Johansson%20Addresses%20OpenAI%20%22Sky%22%20Voice%20Controversy&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20May%2021%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
