---
slug: '/2024/05/31'
---

# 2024-05-31

## [Designing Apps for Extreme Connectivity Challenges: Lessons from Antarctica](https://brr.fyi/posts/engineering-for-slow-internet)

- An IT worker with the United States Antarctic Program shares experiences of using the Internet in bandwidth-constrained environments like McMurdo and the South Pole from August 2022 to November 2023.
- The post highlights severe connectivity challenges, including high latency, slow speeds, and frequent dropouts, impacting the usability of modern web applications.
- The author criticizes app developers for not accommodating slow and intermittent links and suggests improvements like flexible timeouts, incremental uploads, and robust download managers to enhance usability in remote areas.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40531100)

- The discussion highlights the challenges of internet use in areas with poor connectivity, urging developers to create more efficient and accessible web applications.
- Users criticize modern web apps for being bloated and inefficient, emphasizing the need for performant applications for all users, not just those with high-speed internet.
- The discussion explores solutions like custom VPN obfuscation, modern JavaScript frameworks, server-side rendering, and optimizing static site generators to improve web performance under variable and unreliable internet conditions.

## [Japan Allocates ¥10 Billion to Make All Publicly Funded Research Open Access by 2025](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-024-01493-8)

- Japan is allocating ¥10 billion to universities to create institutional repositories, making all publicly funded research open access by January 2025.
- Researchers with government funding must make their papers freely available, focusing on 'green OA' (author-accepted versions) due to the high cost of 'gold OA' (publisher's version).
- This initiative aims to enhance research traceability, facilitate secondary research, promote collaboration, and address Japan's declining international research standing, aligning with global open access trends.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40530670)

- Japan's push for open access (OA) research has sparked debate over the financial and quality implications of OA publishing, often criticized as "pay to publish."
- The discussion contrasts "green OA" (self-archiving) with "gold OA" (paying publishers), highlighting the high costs of the latter and suggesting alternatives like national repositories and volunteer-run peer review processes.
- The debate underscores the need for systemic changes to democratize research access, with concerns about the sustainability and quality of OA models and calls for better data governance and academic incentives for data sharing.

## [Homeowner Hides Boat with Realistic Mural on Fence, Goes Viral](https://news.artnet.com/art-world/fence-boat-painting-artist-hanif-panni-2487875)

- Homeowner Etienne Constable in Seaside, California, responded to a town order to hide his boat by commissioning a mural of the boat on the fence, painted by artist Hanif Panni.
- The mural, praised for its trompe-l’oeil style and artistic quality, went viral, attracting significant media and social media attention.
- The creative solution has sparked discussions on public art and community creativity, with Panni receiving more mural requests due to the positive reception.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40531984)

- A man painted his boat on his fence to comply with an HOA rule, igniting a debate on the role and impact of Homeowners' Associations (HOAs).
- Opinions are divided: some argue HOAs are essential for maintaining property values and community standards, while others criticize them for excessive control and discriminatory practices.
- The discussion underscores the complexities of balancing individual freedoms with collective benefits, the challenges of avoiding HOAs in new developments, and the broader themes of freedom, property rights, and local governance.

## [Global Sun Simulation Tool Visualizes Shadows in Real-Time](https://shademap.app)

- MapLibre Open Menu PRO introduces a global sun simulation feature, enabling users to visualize shadow changes throughout the day by interacting with a timeline.
- The feature provides detailed sun position data, such as altitude and azimuth, enhancing the accuracy of shadow simulations.
- This tool is particularly useful for applications requiring precise sunlight and shadow analysis, such as urban planning and architecture.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40531699)

- A new tool called shademap.app has been released, which simulates shadows from mountains, buildings, and trees globally for any given time.
- This tool is gaining attention for its ability to provide detailed shadow simulations, which can be useful for various applications such as urban planning and outdoor activities.
- The original discussion about this tool on Hacker News has been relocated to a different thread, indicating significant interest and engagement from the tech community.

## [Understanding AWS S3 Encryption: More Access Control Than True Encryption](https://blog.plerion.com/things-you-wish-you-didnt-need-to-know-about-s3/)

- The article examines the different encryption methods for AWS S3 buckets, highlighting that S3 encryption acts more like access control than conventional encryption.
- Understanding this distinction is crucial for grasping the security implications and correctly utilizing S3 encryption features.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40531301)

- The debate on Amazon S3's case-sensitive file system reveals differing opinions on its utility and complexity, with some finding it useful for organization and others finding it confusing due to non-case-sensitive systems like Windows.
- The discussion highlights the challenges of managing case-sensitive file names across different environments, noting benefits for terminals but less intuitiveness for GUIs, and critiques the handling of case sensitivity in Windows and MacOS.
- The conversation also covers practical aspects of AWS S3, such as managing large-scale deletions, costs of incomplete multipart uploads, and best practices for optimizing AWS services like CloudFront for caching and latency reduction.

## [Snowflake Data Breach Exposes 400 Companies, Hacker Demands $20 Million Ransom](https://www.hudsonrock.com/blog/snowflake-massive-breach-access-through-infostealer-infection)

- On May 31, 2024, Hudson Rock reported a significant data breach at Snowflake, a major cloud storage company, due to an Infostealer infection.
- The breach originated from stolen credentials of a Snowflake employee's ServiceNow account, leading to data exfiltration from potentially 400 companies and a $20 million blackmail attempt.
- Hudson Rock confirmed the breach's authenticity and emphasized that it could have been easily prevented, highlighting the increasing threat of Infostealer infections in cybercrime.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40534868)

- A hacker accessed Snowflake's demo environment using stolen credentials from a compromised Sales Engineer's computer, exploiting a process issue with non-expiring shared credentials.
- The breach did not involve actual customer accounts, countering claims of "hundreds of breached customers," and highlights the importance of proper credential management and device security.
- The incident has sparked debates about Snowflake's security practices, the credibility of the reporting source Hudson Rock, and the broader implications of identity-based attacks in the tech industry.

## [Energy-Efficient 1-Bit Language Models: Smaller, Faster, and Nearly as Accurate](https://spectrum.ieee.org/1-bit-llm)

- 1-bit language models (LLMs) present a promising solution to the high energy demands of AI by being more efficient.
- These models are smaller and faster compared to traditional models, making them more practical for various applications.
- Despite their reduced size, 1-bit LLMs maintain nearly the same level of accuracy as their larger counterparts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40529355)

- The discussion focuses on the benefits and challenges of using quantized language models (LLMs) to enhance efficiency and reduce resource requirements while maintaining accuracy.
- Advanced methods like IQ2_XS are highlighted for mitigating the quality loss in highly trained models like Llama3 due to quantization.
- The conversation also explores the future of LLMs, suggesting a shift towards modular systems and emphasizing the need to balance computational cost, quality, and environmental considerations.

## [Standard Ebooks Celebrates 1,000th Release with James Joyce's "Ulysses"](https://standardebooks.org/ebooks/james-joyce/ulysses)

- "Ulysses" by James Joyce is a seminal novel in English literature, depicting a single day in Dublin on June 16, 1904, through the lives of Stephen Dedalus and Leopold Bloom.
- The novel is renowned for its innovative narrative techniques and stylistic diversity, drawing parallels to Homer's "Odyssey." It faced initial legal challenges for obscenity, delaying its full publication until 1922.
- This Standard Ebooks edition is based on the 1922 first edition with corrections from pre-1929 errata and is free of copyright in the U.S., though it may still be restricted in other regions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40535895)

- Standard Ebooks has released its 1,000th title, "Ulysses" by James Joyce, which has sparked a discussion on Hacker News about its Flesch Reading Ease score of 74.9, despite its complex prose.
- Users debate the appropriateness of readability algorithms for modernist literature and suggest alternative methods for rating book difficulty, while also discussing reading strategies for "Ulysses" and the quality of Standard Ebooks' offerings.
- The conversation includes issues with the site's tech stack, comparisons to Gutenberg.org, and the subjective nature of literary appreciation, especially for non-native English speakers.

## [Mozilla Enhances Firefox with Tab Grouping, Vertical Tabs, and On-Device AI Features](https://blog.mozilla.org/en/mozilla/heres-what-were-working-on-in-firefox/)

- Mozilla is upgrading Firefox with user-requested features such as Tab Grouping, Vertical Tabs, a Sidebar, and a Profile Management system to separate different browsing activities.
- New additions include customizable new tab wallpapers, simplified privacy settings, and performance improvements for faster page loads, better battery efficiency, and enhanced cross-browser compatibility.
- Privacy enhancements focus on local device processing for tasks like translation and PDF editing, and Mozilla is exploring on-device AI for features like AI-generated alt-text for PDFs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40527730)

- Recent Firefox updates have simplified menus, leading to mixed reactions; some users appreciate the changes, while others feel it reduces discoverability and functionality for power users.
- Criticisms extend beyond UI design to Mozilla's management and external pressures, such as Google's influence, with debates on resource allocation and the balance between user customization and security.
- Despite a declining market share, Firefox retains a loyal user base due to features like the "awesome bar" and customization options, with suggestions for improvements including better tab management, extension control, and performance enhancements.

## [Intel Motherboard CPU Upgrade Hack: Kapton Tape and BIOS Mods Enable Newer CPUs](https://hackaday.com/2024/05/31/intels-anti-upgrade-tricks-defeated-with-kapton-tape/)

- Intel motherboards with Z170 or Z270 chipsets officially support up to 7th generation Kaby Lake CPUs, but users can enable 8th and 9th generation Coffee Lake CPUs through a "Coffee Mod" involving Kapton tape fixes and BIOS modifications.
- The "Coffee Mod" allows continued compatibility with older CPUs, showcasing community efforts to bypass Intel's restrictive practices.
- Future Intel security measures, such as BootGuard, may impede these modifications, contrasting with AMD's broader CPU support.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40533761)

- Intel is criticized for limiting CPU socket compatibility, seen as a strategy to boost profits or due to deals with motherboard manufacturers.
- Despite minimal changes in CPUs over six years, Intel marketed each as a new generation by tweaking compatibility, complicating upgrades and frustrating users.
- Comparisons are made to more honest incremental updates in cars and phones, with discussions on technical justifications, market dynamics, and potential competition from RISC-V and ARM.

## [Malenfant.net: A Decentralized Social Network with Privacy and Real-Time Features](https://malenfant.net/@didier/112528487189999791)

- Malenfant.net is a decentralized social network powered by Mastodon, allowing users to create accounts, follow profiles or hashtags, and interact with posts.
- The platform offers features such as live feeds, keyboard shortcuts, and provides information on its privacy policy and server statistics.
- This site exemplifies the growing trend towards decentralized social media, emphasizing user control and privacy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40533484)

- Discord is lauded for its user-friendly interface, real-time communication, and integrated voice and video chat, making it popular for gaming and social interactions.
- Criticisms of Discord include poor organization, lack of searchability, and data privacy concerns, making it less ideal for knowledge retention and technical documentation.
- Alternatives like forums, Discourse, and IRC offer better information preservation but struggle with user adoption due to complexity and lack of modern features, reflecting a generational shift towards more convenient platforms.

## [Local AI Solutions for Efficient PDF Search on Mac](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40528192)

- The user is looking for a local-first AI solution to manage and search sensitive PDFs stored on iCloud, focusing on content-based queries without manual tagging.
- The solution should prioritize recall over precision and be compatible with Mac software, emphasizing modern, ready-made approaches.
- Example query: "show me all tax documents for August 2023."

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40528192)

- A user is looking for a local AI solution to search sensitive PDFs on iCloud, preferring Mac software that doesn't require tagging and prioritizes recall over precision.
- Suggestions include custom tools using local large language models (LLMs), RAG CLI from LlamaIndex, and converting PDFs to markdown, with tools like pypdf, mupdf, and Phi-3-vision mentioned for OCR and QA.
- The discussion highlights the importance of efficient document processing pipelines, the potential of AI models in enhancing search capabilities, and concerns about data privacy and the utility of extensive digital archives.

## [Krita Celebrates 25 Years of Evolution and Innovation in Digital Art](https://krita.org/en/posts/2024/krita-25-years/)

- Krita, a digital painting application, has evolved over 25 years from KImageShop to its current form, overcoming multiple restarts and technical challenges.
- Key milestones include transitioning from Qt3 to Qt4, expanding to Windows and MacOS, and overcoming financial hurdles through fundraisers and community support.
- The project is now preparing for Krita 6.0, involving a port to Qt6, with recent versions focusing on usability and new features, and ongoing development supported by donations and community involvement.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40533622)

- Krita, a free and open-source digital painting software, is praised for its animation tools and ease of use, particularly in frame-based GIF editing, which some commercial alternatives lack.
- Despite its 25-year history, Krita gained significant recognition only in the past decade, often being recommended over GIMP for digital painting tasks.
- Discussions highlight challenges with using Fedora 40 for digital artists due to tablet software issues and Krita not being a Wayland app, with some suggesting OpenSUSE as a better alternative.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Designing Apps for Extreme Connectivity Challenges: Lessons from Antarctica" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Designing%20Apps%20for%20Extreme%20Connectivity%20Challenges%3A%20Lessons%20from%20Antarctica&subheading=Friday%2C%20May%2031%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
