---
slug: '/2024/08/01'
---

# 2024-08-01

## [Suspicious data pattern in recent Venezuelan election](https://statmodeling.stat.columbia.edu/2024/07/31/suspicious-data-pattern-in-recent-venezuelan-election/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41123155)

- Recent Venezuelan election results show a suspicious data pattern, with opposition candidate Gonzalez reportedly winning 67% of the vote compared to Maduro's 30%, raising questions about the legitimacy of the results.
- Analysts argue that the probability of vote percentages landing on exact round numbers is extremely low, suggesting potential manipulation or fraud in the reported results.
- The discussion highlights the broader issue of election integrity and the challenges of detecting and proving electoral fraud, especially in authoritarian regimes where power dynamics can influence the transparency of the process.

## [How I got my laser eye injury](https://www.funraniumlabs.com/2024/07/how-i-got-my-laser-eye-injury/)

- Phil B. recounts a series of poor decisions leading to a laser eye injury while working at a laser company in 1999.
- A Quanta-Ray laser was improperly set up for a sales demo, causing safety violations and damage to a VP's car.
- The incident highlighted severe safety lapses, resulting in the firing of a sales engineer and underscoring the importance of proper laser safety protocols.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41127706)

- Laser eye injuries can occur even with PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) and interlocks; laser safety curtains are crucial.
- A 2500-watt laser can cause blindness over long distances due to reflections, with a NOHD (Nominal Ocular Hazard Distance) of about 10km.
- Enclosed areas with interlocks, mobile barriers, and laser absorption coatings are recommended for safety, especially when working with reflective materials like copper and aluminum.

## [Just Disconnect the Internet](https://computer.rip/2024-07-31-just-disconnect-the-internet.html)

- A security vendor, ClownStrike, hypothetically disrupts their Windows install base with a faulty update, sparking discussions on the feasibility of disconnecting systems from the internet for security.
- Disconnecting systems from the internet is impractical for modern businesses due to the need for real-time communication, maintenance, updates, and monitoring.
- Enhancing security within connected environments through restrictive network policies and designing software with offline capabilities is a more effective approach than complete disconnection.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41125490)

- Disconnecting from the internet is not a straightforward solution for security issues, especially in IoT and healthcare industries that depend on connectivity for updates and functionality.
- The debate centers on the practicality of air-gapped systems versus the need for improved security practices, regulations, and balancing security with operational efficiency.
- Enhancing security involves a mix of better practices, education, and occasionally, strategic disconnection from the internet.

## [Breakthrough a step toward revealing hidden structure of prime numbers](https://www.science.org/content/article/sensational-breakthrough-marks-step-toward-revealing-hidden-structure-prime-numbers)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41126944)

- A recent breakthrough in prime number theory has generated significant interest, with notable mathematicians like Terence Tao discussing its implications.
- The breakthrough involves new bounds on large values in Dirichlet's theorem, presented by James Maynard and Larry Guth, which could have long-term impacts on number theory research.
- The discovery has sparked discussions about its potential effects on cryptography, particularly concerning the security of RSA encryption and the industry's preparedness for such theoretical advancements.

## [Foobar2000](https://www.foobar2000.org/)

- foobar2000, a freeware audio player for Windows, has released bug fixes for versions 1.5 and 1.6, with versions 1.6.18 and 1.5.12 now available for download.
- foobar2000 mobile v1.5 has been released, featuring a new editable skin file format, with the Android APK available for download.
- foobar2000 v2.1 final and foobar2000 for Mac v2.6 final were released in December 2023.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41122920)

- Foobar2000 is celebrated for its simple and consistent user interface, maintaining popularity for 21 years due to its functionality and minimalism.
- Despite the popularity of streaming services, Foobar2000 remains valued for its configurability and support for various audio formats.
- The author of Foobar2000 has opted not to open-source the software, prioritizing control and compatibility.

## [Stop Killing Games – European Citizens' Initiative](https://www.stopkillinggames.com/eci)

- A movement is advocating for a new EU law to ensure video games remain functional even after publishers end support, preserving them as an art form.
- The proposal includes ensuring no required connections to the publisher post-support and not interfering with business practices during active support.
- EU citizens are encouraged to sign the Citizens' Initiative to support this cause.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41126782)

- The European Citizens' Initiative aims to ensure the legality of third-party reverse-engineering due to the unavailability of official support, particularly for video games and other software.
- This initiative is significant as it addresses the issue of digital preservation, ensuring that games and software remain accessible even after official support ends, which is crucial for cultural and historical preservation.
- The initiative proposes that game companies should release server software or patch games to work offline when they shut down servers, preventing the loss of access to purchased content.

## [I recreated Shazam's algorithm with Go](https://github.com/cgzirim/not-shazam)

- NotShazam is a song recognition tool similar to Shazam, utilizing Spotify and YouTube APIs.
- The project requires Golang, FFmpeg, MongoDB, and NPM for installation and setup.
- Users can clone the repository, install dependencies, and run commands to download songs, find matches, and manage fingerprints.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41127726)

- A developer has recreated Shazam's algorithm using the Go programming language and shared it on GitHub.
- The original Shazam algorithm is patented by Apple until at least March 2025, raising potential legal issues for those using or distributing the recreated version.
- The project has some technical and usability issues, such as incomplete setup instructions and critical vulnerabilities in dependencies, which need addressing for broader adoption.

## [PyTorch – Torchchat: Chat with LLMs Everywhere](https://github.com/pytorch/torchchat)

- Torchchat is a versatile codebase enabling seamless execution of large language models (LLMs) across platforms like Python, C/C++, iOS, and Android.
- Key features include interactive chat in CLI or browser, desktop/server execution without Python, faster execution with AOT Inductor, and mobile deployment.
- Supported models include Llama 3, Llama 2, Stories, and Mistral, with a focus on usability, simplicity, extensibility, and correctness, backed by extensive unit tests and community contributions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41125980)

- PyTorch has introduced Torchchat, a tool for integrating Large Language Models (LLMs) across various platforms, including mobile and native apps.
- Torchchat offers more flexibility and customization compared to Ollama, which is better suited for easy integration with desktop/laptop projects.
- Torchchat supports advanced features like flash attention for NVIDIA GPUs and uses libtorch on servers and executorch on mobile devices.

## [SnowflakeOS: Beginner friendly and GUI focused NixOS variant](https://snowflakeos.org/)

- SnowflakeOS is a new, beginner-friendly Linux distribution based on NixOS, designed to simplify the user experience.
- The project is currently in its alpha stage, indicating it is not yet stable or suitable for daily use.
- Users and developers can connect and contribute through platforms like GitHub, Discord, Matrix, Twitter, and Mastodon.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41124472)

- SnowflakeOS is a user-friendly, GUI-focused variant of NixOS, designed to make NixOS more accessible through graphical configuration tools.
- The project is in its early stages with limited recent activity, and the website lacks detailed information.
- Some users are concerned about fragmentation and internal conflicts within the Nix community, prompting them to look for alternatives like SnowflakeOS.

## [Stable Fast 3D: Rapid 3D Asset Generation from Single Images](https://stability.ai/news/introducing-stable-fast-3d)

- Stable Fast 3D generates high-quality 3D assets from a single image in just 0.5 seconds, making it highly efficient for various industries like gaming, VR, retail, and architecture.
- Built on TripoSR, it features significant improvements, including fast textured mesh creation and reduced illumination entanglement, and is available under the Stability AI Community License on Hugging Face.
- Accessible via Stability AI API and Stable Assistant chatbot, it allows users to share and play with 3D creations in Augmented Reality, with model code on GitHub and demo on Hugging Face.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41130042)

- Stability AI has introduced "Stable Fast 3D," a tool for rapid 3D asset generation from single images, capturing significant interest in the tech community.
- The tool promises to generate 3D assets in just 0.5 seconds on a GPU with 7GB VRAM, making it accessible for many 3D artists and potentially reducing costs in game development and other industries.
- Despite some mixed results in early tests, the technology shows promise for enhancing creative workflows, particularly in indie game development and 3D printing.

## [Flux: Open-source text-to-image model with 12B parameters](https://blog.fal.ai/flux-the-largest-open-sourced-text2img-model-now-available-on-fal/)

- Black Forest Labs has announced Flux, a new text-to-image model with 12 billion parameters, available on fal.
- Flux offers three variations: FLUX.1 [dev] (open-source, non-commercial), FLUX.1 [schnell] (distilled, faster, Apache 2 Licensed), and FLUX.1 [pro] (closed-source, API access).
- Key features include enhanced image quality, advanced human anatomy and photorealism, improved prompt adherence, and exceptional speed, making it suitable for high-demand applications.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41130620)

- Flux is an open-source text-to-image model with 12 billion parameters, developed by Black Forest Labs and optimized by fal.ai for fast inference.
- The model is available in three versions: schnell (Apache-licensed), dev (non-commercial), and pro (closed source), and can be tried on fal.ai or replicate.com.
- While some users reported issues with spatial relationships and prompt adherence, the model has generally received positive feedback for its quality and speed, though it requires significant GPU resources to run locally.

## [Coinbase awarded a $500k bug bounty](https://hackerone.com/coinbase/hacktivity)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41127446)

- Coinbase awarded a $500k bug bounty to CertiK, a company specializing in auditing crypto projects, despite its controversial reputation.
- The discussion underscores the challenges and skepticism surrounding crypto security audits and their impact on trust within the crypto ecosystem.
- Users debate whether the reliance on audits contradicts crypto's promise of trustless transactions, highlighting the role of regulations and the financial incentives for identifying vulnerabilities.

## [Don’t Let Your Domain Name Become a “Sitting Duck”](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2024/07/dont-let-your-domain-name-become-a-sitting-duck/)

- Over a million domain names, including those from Fortune 100 companies, are vulnerable to cybercriminal takeover due to authentication weaknesses at major web hosting providers and domain registrars.
- Research by Infoblox and Eclypsium highlights that many large hosting and DNS providers still have this vulnerability, allowing cybercriminals to hijack domains and conduct phishing attacks.
- Solutions being explored include using random name servers and ensuring new name server hosts do not match previous assignments, but better cooperation among stakeholders is needed to mitigate these risks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41125544)

- If a domain's account with a third-party nameserver expires, someone else can take control of the DNS zone, compromising the domain's credibility.
- Cloudflare had a loophole where attackers could take over domains by creating new accounts with the same nameservers, but this issue has reportedly been fixed.
- The primary solution is to ensure that NS (Name Server) records are updated and controlled by the domain owner to prevent unauthorized takeovers.

## [Study: Consumers Actively Turned Off by AI](https://futurism.com/the-byte/study-consumers-turned-off-products-ai)

- A study in the Journal of Hospitality Marketing & Management found that mentioning "artificial intelligence" in marketing decreases consumer trust and purchase intentions.
- Researchers surveyed 1,000 respondents and noted that AI-labeled products were less popular, especially for high-risk purchases like expensive electronics or medical devices.
- The study advises companies to focus on product features and benefits rather than emphasizing AI, highlighting a broader trend of consumer fatigue with AI hype.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41126685)

- A study indicates that consumers are often turned off by AI features, leading to decreased user retention and no new purchases in some cases.
- There is a noticeable disconnect between the enthusiasm of tech creators for AI and the actual preferences of consumers, who find AI overhyped and poorly implemented.
- While AI can be useful in specific contexts, such as Google Photos' face recognition, it frequently fails in customer service roles, causing frustration among users.

## [Cardie – An open source business card designer and sharing platform](https://github.com/nfoert/cardie)

- Cardie allows users to design, share, print, and save business or information cards, with features like analytics and privacy settings.
- The project is currently in open alpha, meaning it is subject to rapid changes and potential bugs.
- Installation involves cloning the repository, setting up a virtual environment, installing dependencies, and configuring a Django server.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41122793)

- Cardie is an open-source platform for designing and sharing digital business cards, with future print options planned.
- The project is currently in open alpha, with more customization options and improvements, such as testing without account creation and enhanced security measures, being developed.
- The platform aims to provide a modern alternative to traditional business cards, similar to services like Linktree.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Suspicious data pattern in recent Venezuelan election" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Suspicious%20data%20pattern%20in%20recent%20Venezuelan%20election&subheading=Thursday%2C%20August%201%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
