---
slug: '/2024/08/06'
---

# 2024-08-06

## [Ending production of Chromecast](https://blog.google/products/google-nest/chromecast-history/)

- Chromecast, a popular streaming device, is ending production after 11 years and over 100 million units sold.
- Google is introducing the Google TV Streamer, a premium device aimed at modern entertainment and smart home integration, marking a transition from Chromecast.
- Chromecast's legacy includes its 2013 launch and the 2020 introduction of Chromecast with Google TV, highlighting its impact on TV streaming technology.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41171060)

- Google is discontinuing Chromecast and rebranding it as "Google TV Streamer," aiming to provide a more Apple TV-like experience.
- The new device will be more expensive and less dependent on phones, raising concerns about privacy and the potential loss of simple casting functionality.
- This rebranding aligns with Google's strategy to unify its product names under the Google brand.

## [No Salt](https://jakeseliger.com/2024/08/05/no-salt/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41167467)

- Jake Seliger's blog post on his brother's cancer battle emphasizes the significance of clinical trials for mRNA tumor vaccines and suggests improvements for the clinical trial process.
- The post has attracted considerable attention, with the comments section filled with personal stories, messages of support, and discussions on coping with grief.
- Some commenters also explore the cultural role of food and cooking, highlighting diverse ways people find comfort during difficult times.

## [OpenAI co-founder John Schulman says he will leave and join rival Anthropic](https://www.cnbc.com/2024/08/06/openai-co-founder-john-schulman-says-he-will-join-rival-anthropic.html)

- OpenAI co-founder John Schulman is leaving the company to join Anthropic, an AI startup funded by Amazon, to focus on AI alignment.
- Schulman, who played a key role in refining models for OpenAI's ChatGPT, emphasized that his departure was not due to a lack of support at OpenAI.
- This move is part of a broader trend of key figures leaving OpenAI, including the temporary exit of co-founder Greg Brockman, amid significant changes at the company.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41168904)

- OpenAI co-founder John Schulman is leaving to join rival AI company Anthropic, raising concerns about OpenAI's future and its development of ChatGPT 5.
- Schulman's departure, along with other significant exits, suggests potential instability and challenges within OpenAI, including high burn rates and fundraising issues.
- Anthropic is perceived as more committed to AI safety and ethical considerations, aligning with the original goals of AI development.

## [Can we stop the decline of monarch butterflies and other pollinators?](https://www.wisfarmer.com/story/news/2024/08/05/can-we-stop-the-decline-of-monarch-butterflies-and-other-pollinators/74638545007/)

- Monarch butterflies and other pollinators in Wisconsin are experiencing a significant decline, as observed by conservationists and researchers.
- Factors contributing to this decline include extreme weather, habitat loss, predators, droughts, climate change, and insecticides, with a study from Michigan State University emphasizing the impact of insecticides.
- The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service recommends planting native flowers, reducing pesticide use, and creating pollinator-friendly environments to support these essential species.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41165273)

- The discussion centers on efforts to stop the decline of monarch butterflies and other pollinators, emphasizing the importance of planting native milkweed and avoiding invasive species like tropical milkweed and butterfly bushes.
- Contributors share personal experiences and practical advice on creating pollinator-friendly environments, such as using mesh enclosures to protect caterpillars and planting diverse native plants.
- The conversation highlights broader environmental concerns, including the impact of agricultural practices, pesticide use, and habitat loss on pollinator populations.

## [The Soul of Maintaining a New Machine](https://books.worksinprogress.co/book/maintenance-of-everything/communities-of-practice/the-soul-of-maintaining-a-new-machine/1)

- In the 1980s, Xerox technicians relied on social interactions and storytelling to maintain complex photocopiers, as formal documentation was insufficient.
- Anthropologist Julian Orr's study led to the Eureka project, a database for sharing tips among technicians, which improved service efficiency and fostered a community of practice.
- Despite Eureka's success in France and Canada, Xerox struggled to integrate this informal knowledge into broader company practices, missing a chance to reorient towards service.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41167615)

- The article highlights the significant impact of anthropological and sociological studies on improving Xerox copiers, which led to changes in design and reduced maintenance costs.
- It emphasizes the importance of understanding the social context of technology use, contrasting successful products like Gmail with failures due to internal focus, such as many Google products.
- The discussion includes reflections on the evolution of attitudes towards user problems and the value of repair technicians, illustrating how these insights can lead to better product development and company success.

## [Debugging a rustc segfault on Illumos](https://sunshowers.io/posts/rustc-segfault-illumos/)

- Oxide uses Helios, an illumos-based OS, for their cloud computers, and recently debugged a segmentation fault in the Rust compiler on illumos.
- The crash occurred during the stage 0 build process of the Rust standard library, specifically in the cranelift-codegen component, due to stacker library's inability to detect stack size on illumos.
- Key takeaways include the need for better stack size detection in stacker on illumos, improved error reporting, and the collaborative effort in debugging using illumos tools like coreadm and mdb.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41164885)

- The post discusses debugging a Rust compiler (rustc) segmentation fault on the Illumos operating system, highlighting the use of Illumos-specific tools and compiler bootstrapping techniques.
- The issue is not unique to Illumos and affects other platforms, but Illumos' tooling and APIs provide unique insights and solutions.
- The conversation includes various technical details, such as handling core dumps, stack growth, and the use of tools like DTrace and truss, making it a valuable read for those interested in low-level debugging and system internals.

## [X is closing San Francisco HQ and relocating staffers to San Jose](https://fortune.com/2024/08/05/x-closing-san-francisco-hq-relocating-staffers-san-jose-palo-alto-shared-space-with-x-ai-linda-yaccarino-leaked-email/)

- X, formerly known as Twitter, is closing its San Francisco headquarters and relocating staff to San Jose and a shared space with x.AI in Palo Alto, as per a leaked email from CEO Linda Yaccarino.
- The San Francisco office, Twitter's global HQ since 2012, will be closed in the coming weeks, aligning with Elon Musk's earlier hints of a potential move to Texas.
- This relocation is part of a broader strategy to establish new primary locations in the Bay Area, amidst San Francisco's ongoing challenges to rejuvenate its downtown and commercial real estate market.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41168889)

- X is shutting down its San Francisco headquarters and moving its employees to San Jose.
- This relocation marks a significant shift for the company, potentially impacting its workforce and operations.
- The move could be driven by various factors, including cost savings and strategic business decisions.

## [Building rqlite 9.0: Cutting disk usage by half](https://www.philipotoole.com/building-rqlite-9-0-cutting-disk-usage-by-half/)

- rqlite 9.0, an open-source distributed relational database, aims to cut disk usage by 50% through a high-level design overhaul.
- The new design, called Referential Snapshotting, eliminates the need to store a snapshotted copy of the working SQLite database, reducing disk usage and improving efficiency.
- This update will also bring faster snapshotting and node restart times, with further details on SQLite Write-Ahead Log (WAL) management and seamless upgrades to follow.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41167060)

- rqlite 9.0 has been released, significantly reducing disk usage by half.
- rqlite is a distributed relational database management system (RDBMS) built on SQLite and Raft consensus algorithm, known for its ease of deployment and operation.
- Despite lower write throughput compared to other distributed databases like CockroachDB and TiDB, rqlite's new version introduces performance improvements such as Queued Writes.

## [Introducing Structured Outputs in the API](https://openai.com/index/introducing-structured-outputs-in-the-api/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41173223)

- OpenAI has introduced structured outputs in their API, allowing models to produce specific output formats, which enhances reliability and reduces costs.
- The update supports up to 16k output tokens and includes a price reduction for handling image inputs, making AI more practical and accessible.
- While some users are concerned about high computational costs and potential misuse, the overall reception highlights the importance and impact of this advancement.

## [WordStar 7, the last ever DOS version, is re-released for free](https://www.theregister.com/2024/08/06/wordstar_7_the_last_ever/)

- WordStar 7, the last DOS version of the word processor, has been re-released for free by Canadian science fiction writer Robert J Sawyer.
- This version, used by notable authors like Arthur C Clarke and George R R Martin, includes DOS emulators (DOSbox-X and vDosPlus) for compatibility with modern Windows systems.
- Despite being last updated in 1992 and considered abandonware, WordStar remains popular among writers for its simplicity and functionality.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41169195)

- WordStar 7, the final DOS version, has been re-released for free by a fan, specifically writer Robert J. Sawyer, not the official owners.
- The ownership of WordStar's intellectual property is ambiguous, with potential owners being Houghton Mifflin Harcourt or Software MacKiev.
- The re-release has ignited discussions on the benefits of WordStar, such as its flexible block editing, and comparisons to modern tools like Vim and LaTeX, as well as conversations about software cloning, copyright issues, and the evolution of text editors.

## [Twitter kills its San Francisco headquarters, will relocate to South Bay](https://sfstandard.com/2024/08/05/x-officially-kills-its-san-francisco-headquarters-will-relocate-workers-to-south-bay/)

- Business X is closing its San Francisco headquarters and relocating employees to the South Bay, with engineering staff moving to Palo Alto and other employees to San Jose's Santana Row.
- The decision follows Elon Musk's 2022 acquisition, which resulted in mass layoffs and a shift to full-time office work.
- The company is also subleasing its Mid-Market offices, marking the end of an era for the area that had benefited from special tax incentives to attract tech companies.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41167561)

- Twitter is moving its headquarters from San Francisco to the South Bay, prompting discussions about financial reasons, employee commutes, and city conditions.
- The relocation is speculated to be driven by cost savings, access to a different talent pool, and the challenging street environment around the current office.
- This move is part of broader changes under Elon Musk's leadership, including significant workforce reductions and shifts in company policies.

## [Dell lays off 12,500 people](https://www.theregister.com/2024/08/06/dell_layoffs/)

- Dell has initiated significant layoffs, affecting approximately 12,500 employees, reducing its workforce from 120,000 to below 100,000.
- The company states the layoffs are part of a reorganization to become leaner and focus on modern IT and AI, with many positions cut from the sales division.
- Severance packages include two months' wages plus a week per year served, and some employees suspect the return-to-office mandate is a stealth layoff.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41172399)

- Dell has announced layoffs affecting 12,500 employees, reducing its workforce from 120,000 to below 100,000.
- The severance package includes two months' wages plus an additional week per year of service, capped at 26 weeks.
- Speculations suggest the layoffs are due to factors like AI, inflation, overhiring, and supply chain issues, rather than mismanagement.

## [Replacing Liquid Metal on an Asus Zephyrus G15's CPU](https://flemesre.github.io/posts/liquid-metal-replacement/)

- The Asus ROG Zephyrus G15, a gaming laptop, uses a thermal interface material (TIM) for cooling, with recent models incorporating liquid metal TIM for better performance.
- Liquid metal TIM, while effective, is electrically conductive and can move, posing risks; Asus mitigates this with a silicone seal and foam barrier.
- Replacing the liquid metal TIM with Honeywell’s PTM7950 phase-change TIM, which is solid at room temperature and liquifies at operating temperature, resolved thermal throttling issues and improved cooling performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41165117)

- The post discusses replacing liquid metal on an Asus Zephyrus G15's CPU, highlighting concerns and experiences with liquid metal thermal interfaces.
- Users debate the terminology and safety of using liquid metal, with some suggesting alternatives like PTM7950 thermal pads for better reliability.
- The conversation includes practical advice on handling liquid metal, potential risks of leakage, and the impact on laptop performance and longevity.

## [I built a simple, open-source tool to manage servers and SSH keys](https://github.com/d3witt/viking)

- Viking is a tool designed for simple remote machine management, particularly for bare metal servers, offering full control and freedom.
- Key features include managing SSH keys, executing shell commands, and handling machine configurations, all through a command-line interface.
- The tool is available for installation on Unix and Windows systems, and it supports custom configuration directories and SSH key management.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41170925)

- An open-source tool for managing servers and SSH keys has been developed, simplifying server management by eliminating the need to remember server IPs and providing an overview with simple commands.
- The tool features a modern API and has sparked a discussion on the balance between traditional methods (like editing the ~/.ssh/config file) and more efficient, user-friendly solutions.
- Despite some negative feedback, the developer values the support and suggestions for improvement, highlighting the importance of security in SSH management.

## [Writing a tile server in Python](https://www.grulic.org.ar/~mdione/glob/posts/writing-a-tile-server-in-python/)

- Developed a tileset based on OpenStreetMap data, optimized for batch rendering using a modified "generate_tiles" script.
- Implemented a Master thread and rendering threads to manage rendering tasks, queues, and cache usage efficiently.
- Created a non-blocking loop using Python's selector API to handle client connections and rendering jobs, supporting multiple clients and efficient rendering.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41168033)

- Discussion centers on creating a tile server in Python, focusing on converting vector MBTiles to raster tiles with specific stylesheets.
- Various approaches and tools are mentioned, including MapLibre Native, Mapnik, and custom C++ programs, highlighting the need for cross-platform solutions and efficient rendering on devices with limited internet.
- The conversation also touches on handling client connection closures in Flask, with suggestions for improving server-side event handling and cleanup processes.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Ending production of Chromecast" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Ending%20production%20of%20Chromecast&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20August%206%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
