---
slug: '/2024/08/08'
---

# 2024-08-08

## [Prevention of HIV](https://www.science.org/content/blog-post/prevention-hiv)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41184365)

- Lenacapavir, a new HIV treatment, shows promise as a long-acting drug administered every six months, potentially reducing new cases by 90-95%.
- It works by interfering with the virus's capsid, preventing replication, and has a long half-life due to its chemical structure, including fluorines.
- While it represents a significant advancement in HIV prevention, concerns about drug resistance, cost, and accessibility remain, particularly in the USA.

## [Google and Meta struck secret ads deal to target teenagers](https://www.ft.com/content/b3bb80f4-4e01-4ce6-8358-f4f8638790f8)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41188295)

- Google and Meta secretly collaborated on ad targeting for teenagers, violating Google's own rules against personalizing ads for under-18s.
- This has ignited ethical debates about targeting children with ads, drawing comparisons to historical and modern controversial marketing practices.
- The controversy underscores broader concerns about privacy, data collection, and the influence of large tech companies, prompting calls for stricter regulations to protect vulnerable groups.

## [NASA Says Boeing Starliner Astronauts May Fly Home on SpaceX in 2025](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/07/science/boeing-starliner-nasa-spacex.html)

- NASA has acknowledged that Boeing's Starliner spacecraft issues may be more severe than initially thought, potentially requiring astronauts Suni Williams and Butch Wilmore to return to Earth on SpaceX's Crew Dragon in 2025.
- The astronauts' stay at the International Space Station (ISS) could extend into next year, with NASA considering launching the next Crew Dragon with only two astronauts to accommodate Williams and Wilmore for a six-month stay.
- Boeing has faced multiple setbacks with the Starliner program, including a $125 million write-off, and NASA's decision on the matter is expected by mid-August, with the Crew Dragon launch delayed to no earlier than Sept. 24.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41184359)

- NASA is contemplating using SpaceX's Dragon capsule to return Boeing Starliner astronauts to Earth in 2025 due to safety concerns with the Starliner.
- NASA engineers are split on the risk, with some favoring the Dragon capsule; a decision is anticipated by mid-August to align with the Crew-9 launch preparations.
- Despite existing thruster issues, NASA might still certify the Starliner for future missions, emphasizing the complexities and prioritization of astronaut safety in space missions.

## [RLHF is just barely RL](https://twitter.com/karpathy/status/1821277264996352246)

- Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) is the last significant phase in training large language models, coming after pretraining and supervised finetuning.
- The critique suggests that RLHF scarcely meets the criteria to be considered true reinforcement learning.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41188647)

- AI coding assistance is expected to advance significantly, with coding AI capable of writing tests, code, compiling, and searching for solutions in an unsupervised loop, generating training data for future models.
- Language models (LLMs) may excel at mathematical theorem proving due to accurate feedback from theorem verification software, potentially improving formal verification of program correctness by generating annotations.
- The discussion highlights the challenges of defining clear reward functions for AI in programming, comparing it to the complexity of specifying problems and the iterative nature of software development.

## [Firefox Sidebar and Vertical tabs: try them out](https://blog.nightly.mozilla.org/2024/08/07/firefox-sidebar-and-vertical-tabs-try-them-out-in-nightly-firefox-labs-131/)

- Firefox Nightly 131 introduces vertical tabs and a new sidebar experience, aimed at improving context-switching and multitasking.
- Users can enable these features by updating to the latest Nightly, navigating to Settings > Firefox Labs, and activating the Sidebar and Vertical tabs experiments.
- The community is encouraged to test these features and provide feedback on Mozilla Connect, with web extension developers advised to check compatibility.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41192118)

- Firefox has introduced a new feature for vertical tabs and a sidebar in its nightly build, aiming to enhance tab management.
- This feature could benefit extensions like Tree Style Tab and Sidebery, which are popular for advanced tab organization.
- User feedback is mixed, with some preferring vertical tabs for better screen space utilization, while others stick to traditional horizontal tabs or multiple browser windows.

## [I got almost all of my wishes granted with RP2350](https://dmitry.gr/?r=06.%20Thoughts&proj=11.%20RP2350)

- The RP2350 microcontroller addresses many limitations of its predecessor, the RP2040, including better core performance, more DMA channels, and enhanced PIO units.
- Key features of the RP2350 include dual Cortex-M33F cores, stable overclocking at 300MHz, doubled RAM, and reliable QSPI PSRAM support.
- The RP2350 was showcased in the DEFCON 32 badge project, highlighting its capabilities and suggesting it as a superior alternative to the STM32H7 series for better performance and reliability.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41191069)

- The RP2350 microcontroller, designed by Raspberry Pi, offers a choice between ARM Cortex-M33 cores and RISC-V Hazard3 cores, both running at 150 MHz, allowing users to run one of each simultaneously.
- The RP2350 includes robust security features, low-power operation, and is compatible with the original Pico form factor, making it a significant upgrade over the RP2040.
- The introduction of switchable cores (ARM and RISC-V) in the RP2350 is seen as a strategic move to ease the transition to RISC-V, attracting tech enthusiasts and developers interested in open-source hardware.

## [Raspberry Pi Pico 2, our new $5 microcontroller board, on sale now](https://www.raspberrypi.com/news/raspberry-pi-pico-2-our-new-5-microcontroller-board-on-sale-now/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41192341)

- The Raspberry Pi Pico 2, a new $5 microcontroller board, is now available, featuring dual-core ARM Cortex-M33 and RISC-V cores, selectable at boot.
- Despite improved specs like more GPIO pins, PIO state machines, and DMA channels, some users are disappointed it still uses Micro USB instead of USB-C.
- A wireless-enabled version, Pico 2 W, is anticipated by the end of the year, though some users prefer the ESP32 for its built-in wireless capabilities.

## [Cosmic: A New Desktop Environment](https://system76.com/cosmic)

- COSMIC is a new software platform for designing user experiences with a modular desktop environment, currently in its first alpha release, COSMIC Epoch 1.
- The platform is available for testing on Pop!\_OS 24.04 LTS alpha and other Linux distributions, with a focus on customization and advanced functionality.
- Key features include customizable panels, auto-tiling windows, enhanced theming, and independent applets, all written in Rust for stability and performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41192303)

- System76 has released the first alpha of Cosmic, a new desktop environment (DE) built using a new GUI toolkit based on Iced and a new Wayland compositor, all developed in Rust.
- The release includes integrated tiling support, attracting users familiar with i3/sway, and promises a lean, lightweight, and fast DE with full keyboard navigation.
- Reactions are mixed, with some users excited about the innovation and potential improvements, while others are concerned about design and usability.

## [GPT-4 LLM simulates people well enough to replicate social science experiments](https://www.treatmenteffect.app/)

- The demo showcases a tool that uses GPT-4o-mini to predict social science experimental results, specifically treatment effects on U.S. adults.
- The tool is approximately 70-80% accurate in predicting the direction of contrasts between conditions, with a strong correlation (r = .85) between predicted and actual effect sizes.
- Applications include intervention design, minimizing participant harm, pilot testing study materials, and predicting subgroup effects, though caution is advised due to potential biases.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41185783)

- GPT-4 LLM (Large Language Model) can simulate human behavior well enough to replicate social science experiments, predicting outcomes with 69% accuracy, slightly better than human forecasters at 66%.
- Critics argue that the model's predictions might be influenced by its training data, which could include the very experiments it aims to replicate, raising concerns about its true predictive power.
- The discussion highlights the ongoing replication crisis in social sciences, suggesting that while LLMs offer intriguing possibilities, they are not a definitive solution to the problem.

## [How we found and fixed an eBPF Linux kernel vulnerability](https://bughunters.google.com/blog/6303226026131456/a-deep-dive-into-cve-2023-2163-how-we-found-and-fixed-an-ebpf-linux-kernel-vulnerability)

- The blog discusses CVE-2023-2163, a newly discovered vulnerability in the eBPF (extended Berkeley Packet Filter) subsystem of the Linux kernel.
- It details the discovery process, potential impacts, and the steps taken to fix the vulnerability, providing valuable insights for security professionals and developers.
- This post is significant as it highlights ongoing efforts to secure the Linux kernel, a critical component in many systems, and emphasizes the importance of proactive vulnerability management.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41189971)

- A vulnerability in the eBPF (extended Berkeley Packet Filter) Linux kernel was discovered and fixed, highlighting the importance of the eBPF verifier in preventing kernel crashes.
- eBPF verifier bugs are significant but often don't affect platforms where unprivileged code can't load eBPF programs, making them more manageable in server environments.
- Despite its complexity, eBPF is widely used and supported by large tech companies due to its flexibility and ability to solve problems that would otherwise require custom kernel patches.

## [FlexAttention: The Flexibility of PyTorch with the Performance of FlashAttention](https://pytorch.org/blog/flexattention/)

- FlexAttention is a new PyTorch API designed to simplify the implementation of various attention mechanisms in machine learning models, addressing the limitations of existing optimized implementations like FlashAttention.
- It allows researchers to implement attention variants with minimal code, ensuring competitive performance without extra memory usage, and supports user-defined functions for modifying attention scores before softmax.
- FlexAttention is available in PyTorch nightly releases and will be a prototype feature in version 2.5.0, with future improvements planned for performance and additional support features.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41188966)

- FlexAttention merges PyTorch's flexibility with FlashAttention's high performance, simplifying the optimization of attention mechanisms.
- It achieves 90% of FlashAttention2’s performance in the forward pass and 85% in the backward pass, though FlashAttention-3 remains faster.
- While attention mechanisms are not the main computational bottleneck in most current large language model (LLM) workloads, their optimization will become critical as data scales.

## [Argdown, like Markdown for argument mapping](https://argdown.org/)

- Argdown v1.8.2 was released in February 2022, offering a simple syntax for complex argumentation, making it easy to write pros and cons like a Twitter message.
- Argdown can be used within Markdown to create argument maps, which can be published as PDFs, embedded in webpages, or exported as images.
- Tools for Argdown include a browser sandbox, a VS Code extension with live preview and syntax highlighting, and a command-line tool for custom processes and multiple exports.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41186310)

- Argdown is a tool for presenting discussions as argument trees, similar to how Markdown formats text.
- Real-world arguments are often more complex, resembling Directed Acyclic Graphs (DAGs) with weighted edges, rather than simple trees.
- Advanced techniques like LLM-embedding and visualization tools like UMAP can enhance the representation of arguments, and platforms like Kialo and Obsidian offer similar argument mapping features.

## [Mistral Agents](https://mistral.ai/news/build-tweak-repeat/)

- Mistral AI announces advancements in model customization, allowing developers to tailor models like Mistral Large 2 and Codestral using base prompts, few-shot prompting, or fine-tuning with their own datasets.
- An alpha release of Agents introduces models wrapped with additional context and instructions, enabling custom behaviors and workflows on Le Chat or API.
- The stable version of the mistralai library, mistralai 1.0, is now available for Python and Typescript, enhancing usability and consistency.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41184559)

- Mistral Agents is a new feature that couples a system prompt and temperature to a model, aiming to create custom behavior and workflows with instructions and examples.
- The feature is still in development, with plans to connect Agents to tools and data sources, but these integrations are not yet available.
- The term "agents" is seen as vague and loosely defined, with some users comparing it to custom GPTs or other AI frameworks like OpenAI's GPT Store.

## [The News Is Information Junk Food (2022)](https://chuck.is/news/)

- The author argues that reducing news consumption has significantly decreased their anxiety and freed up time for other interests, suggesting that modern news is more about entertainment than information.
- They highlight that a few companies control most media, leading to biased stories focused on clicks and ad revenue, which can provoke emotional reactions and reinforce existing biases.
- The author advocates for a selective approach to information consumption, emphasizing long-form reading and meaningful activities over the 24-hour news cycle to achieve a healthier mental state and more productive use of time.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41189946)

- News is often likened to junk food, offering quick, sensationalized content that can distort reality and promote extreme views.
- The business model of journalism tends to favor content that aligns with readers' beliefs, potentially leading to biased reporting and misinformation, which can harm democracies.
- Suggestions to mitigate these issues include focusing on local news, long-form journalism, and independent rankings of news sites to ensure quality and transparency.

## [Employers used return-to-office to make workers quit](https://thehill.com/opinion/technology/4800828-office-mandates-cause-attrition/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41193968)

- Employers are using return-to-office (RTO) policies to indirectly encourage resignations, reversing years of diversity efforts.
- This approach disproportionately impacts women and caregivers, leading to predictable resignations and potential harm to company culture and productivity.
- Critics argue that RTO policies are a short-sighted tactic to reduce headcount without layoffs, which could be detrimental to long-term business health.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Prevention of HIV" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Prevention%20of%20HIV&subheading=Thursday%2C%20August%208%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
