---
slug: '/2024/08/10'
---

# 2024-08-10

## [Susan Wojcicki has died](https://twitter.com/sundarpichai/status/1822132667959386588)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41207415)

- Susan Wojcicki, a prominent figure in the tech industry, has passed away, as confirmed by Sundar Pichai on Twitter.
- Wojcicki was instrumental in YouTube's success, transforming it into a multifaceted platform worth an estimated $400 billion, surpassing the combined value of Disney and Comcast.
- The discussion highlights YouTube's evolution, from pioneering creator monetization to becoming a significant player in music and podcasting, despite criticisms of stagnation and delayed feature rollouts compared to competitors like Twitch and Patreon.

## [Defcon stiffs badge HW vendor, drags FW author offstage during talk](https://twitter.com/mightymogomra/status/1822119942281650278)

- Defcon allegedly failed to pay the hardware company responsible for this year's badges.
- The software developer who included a mention of this issue in an easter egg was reportedly expelled from the event.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41207221)

- Defcon removed firmware author Dmitry Grinberg from the stage for including an Easter egg crediting unpaid hardware vendor Entropic Engineering.
- Controversy arose as Defcon removed Entropic's logo and did not pay them, leading to backlash and criticism of Defcon's actions.
- Dmitry conducted an unofficial talk outside after his removal, highlighting potential legal issues with distributing unlicensed firmware.

## [A wonderful coincidence or an expected connection: why π² ≈ g](https://roitman.io/blog/91)

- π² (approximately 9.87) and the acceleration due to gravity, g (9.81 m/s²), are intriguingly close in value, but not exactly equal.
- The discrepancy arises from historical changes in the definition of the meter, which has evolved from human-based measurements to a precise scientific standard based on the speed of light.
- The near-equality of π² and g is not a mere coincidence but a result of historical and scientific developments in measurement standards.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41208988)

- The discussion explores the relationship between π² (pi squared) and g (gravitational constant), questioning if it's coincidental or expected.
- Historical context is provided, noting that the meter was originally defined based on a pendulum's length, inherently linking it to gravity and π.
- Opinions vary, with some suggesting the relationship is coincidental due to unit changes, while others argue it's a deliberate connection due to the meter's definition.

## [Urchin Software Corp: The unlikely origin story of Google Analytics (2016)](https://urchin.biz/urchin-software-corp-89a1f5292999)

- Urchin Software Corporation, founded in 1995, evolved from building websites to developing web analytics software, leading to its acquisition by Google in 2005 and the creation of Google Analytics.
- Key milestones include the development of the first log analyzer, rebranding in 2001, and achieving cashflow positivity by 2003 despite financial struggles.
- Google Analytics, launched in November 2005, quickly became a dominant web analytics tool, with the Urchin team integrating into Google and continuing to enhance the product.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41205176)

- Urchin Software Corp, the precursor to Google Analytics, introduced the UTM (Urchin Traffic Monitor) for tracking unique visitors, a method still used today in link tracking parameters.
- Urchin was highly influential in web analytics, offering features like detailed visitor tracking and heat maps, which were later dropped by Google Analytics, leading to some user dissatisfaction.
- The acquisition of Urchin by Google marked a significant shift in web analytics, with Google Analytics becoming a dominant tool, though some users miss the original features and simplicity of Urchin.

## [Building a highly-available web service without a database](https://blog.screenshotbot.io/2024/08/10/building-a-highly-available-web-service-without-a-database/)

- The article proposes a novel architecture for building web services without traditional databases, leveraging advancements in RAM, disk storage, and the Raft Consensus algorithm.
- For startups, using RAM as a database simplifies architecture, speeds up data retrieval, and eases debugging, with periodic snapshots and transaction logs for crash recovery.
- High availability and scalability are achieved through the Raft Consensus Protocol for replication and sharding for clustering, as demonstrated by Screenshotbot's use of Common Lisp, BKNR Datastore, and EFS.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41206908)

- A blog post discusses building a highly-available web service without using a traditional database, sparking debate among tech enthusiasts.
- Critics argue that the approach essentially recreates existing database functionalities, such as transaction logs and replication, but with added complexity and potential reliability issues.
- The post has garnered attention due to its unconventional approach, prompting discussions on the practicality and efficiency of custom-built solutions versus established database systems like SQLite, MySQL, and Postgres.

## [DARPA wants to bypass the thermal middleman in nuclear power systems](https://www.ans.org/news/article-6276/darpa-wants-to-bypass-the-thermal-middleman-in-nuclear-power-systems/)

- DARPA is investigating direct energy conversion from nuclear power, bypassing traditional steam turbines, to convert radiation directly into electricity.
- This initiative could transform nuclear power systems, from small batteries to large grid-scale plants, driven by advancements in radiation-tolerant materials and small nuclear technologies.
- DARPA aims to develop efficient, durable radiovoltaics for diverse applications, including space missions, with responses to their request for information due by August 30.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41205439)

- DARPA is working to remove the thermal intermediary in nuclear power systems, aiming to improve efficiency.
- Betavolt's innovation uses a diamond semiconductor and nickel-63 to produce 100 microwatts, suitable for low-power devices like AirTags but not for high-power needs like smartphones.
- Significant challenges include scaling up production, ensuring safety to prevent radioactive contamination, and navigating stringent regulatory frameworks due to historical safety concerns and international treaties like the NPT (Non-Proliferation Treaty).

## [Ladybird browser to start using Swift language this fall](https://twitter.com/awesomekling/status/1822236888188498031)

- The Ladybird Browser team is considering Swift as a potential successor to C++ for their project.
- Andreas Kling has been testing various languages by having contributors rewrite parts of the project in different languages over the past few months.
- Swift has emerged as the most suitable option among the evaluated languages.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41208836)

- Ladybird browser will adopt the Swift programming language this fall, prompting debates about its suitability beyond the Apple ecosystem.
- Proponents cite Swift's recent enhancements, including improved C++ interoperability and memory safety, as advantages for cross-platform development.
- Concerns include the challenges of switching languages mid-project and the potential impact of funding on the decision.

## [OpenSnitch is a GNU/Linux interactive application firewall](https://github.com/evilsocket/opensnitch)

- OpenSnitch is a GNU/Linux application firewall offering features like interactive outbound connections filtering, system-wide ad/tracker/malware blocking, and GUI-based system firewall configuration.
- It supports managing multiple nodes and Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) integration, making it a robust tool for network security.
- The project has gained attention from notable publications such as PenTest Magazine, It's Foss, and Linux Format, highlighting its relevance and utility in the tech community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41209688)

- OpenSnitch is an interactive firewall for GNU/Linux, with discussions focusing on its pros and cons, such as the difficulty of whitelisting tools like `curl` or `wget` without compromising security.
- Users suggest solutions like subdomain wildcards, expiring rules, and user-specific configurations to manage permissions effectively.
- Comparisons are made with other firewalls like UFW, and alternatives for Android and MacOS, such as AFWall+, NetGuard, and Lulu, are mentioned, along with tips on managing firewall rules and interest in packages for various Linux distributions.

## [Susan Wojcicki has died](https://www.facebook.com/share/p/qe2ZMcs9Bz4K1SPt/)

- Dennis Troper announced the passing of his wife, Susan Wojcicki, after a 2-year battle with non-small cell lung cancer.
- Susan Wojcicki, married to Dennis for 26 years and mother of five, was remembered as a brilliant mind and loving mother.
- The family is heartbroken but thankful for the time they had with her, with friends and family offering condolences and support.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41207446)

- Susan Wojcicki, a pivotal figure in Google's history and former CEO of YouTube, has passed away after a two-year battle with cancer.
- Sundar Pichai, CEO of Google, posted a heartfelt tribute highlighting her significant contributions to Google and YouTube, and her lasting impact on the world.
- Susan's legacy includes transforming YouTube into a major information resource, and her personal connections include her sister Anne, cofounder of 23andMe and former spouse of Google cofounder Sergey Brin.

## [Rivian reduced electrical wiring by 1.6 miles and 44 pounds](https://www.popsci.com/technology/rivian-zonal-electrical-architecture/)

- Rivian has introduced its second-generation R1T pickup and R1S SUV, featuring a new zonal electrical architecture that reduces wiring by 1.6 miles and weight by 44 pounds.
- The new system, developed in-house, simplifies software and hardware, cuts material costs by 20%, and reduces the carbon footprint by 15%.
- The switch from domain-based to zonal architecture consolidates functions into fewer, more powerful ECUs, enhancing scalability and reducing complexity, positioning Rivian for growth, including a joint venture with Volkswagen.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41206443)

- Rivian has reduced electrical wiring in its vehicles by 1.6 miles and 44 pounds through the consolidation of Electronic Control Units (ECUs), simplifying the vehicle's architecture.
- The discussion covers the benefits, such as reduced complexity, and challenges, including potential failure modes and impacts on vehicle reliability.
- Comparisons are made to other automakers like Tesla, highlighting broader implications for innovation and the trade-offs involved in adopting new technologies.

## [Deep Live Cam: Real-time face swapping and one-click video deepfake tool](https://deeplive.cam)

- Deep Live Cam is an advanced AI tool for real-time face swapping and video deepfakes, requiring only a single image for high-quality results.
- It supports multiple platforms, including CPU, NVIDIA CUDA, and Apple Silicon, and features ethical safeguards to prevent misuse.
- The tool is open-source, offers instant previews, and is optimized for faster processing, making it accessible for both personal and commercial use.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41209181)

- Deep Live Cam is a real-time face-swapping and video deepfake tool, raising ethical concerns about its use, especially in impersonating famous individuals.
- The tool claims to have built-in ethical safeguards to prevent processing inappropriate content, but the definition of 'ethical' use remains ambiguous.
- The technology is built on existing projects like GFPGAN and FaceSwap Extension, making advanced deepfake capabilities more accessible to the general public.

## [Caltech Develops First Noninvasive Method to Continually Measure Blood Pressure](https://www.caltech.edu/about/news/caltech-team-develops-first-noninvasive-method-to-continually-measure-true-blood-pressure)

- A Caltech team has developed a noninvasive method called resonance sonomanometry to continually measure true blood pressure using sound waves and ultrasound imaging.
- The device, tested in a small clinical study, produced results comparable to standard blood pressure cuffs and can be used in various settings, including hospitals and remote locations.
- The new device, developed by Esperto Medical, is small, inexpensive, and offers continuous monitoring, potentially replacing traditional blood pressure cuffs and improving medication dosing precision.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41207182)

- Caltech has developed the first noninvasive method for continuous blood pressure measurement, addressing common inaccuracies in traditional methods.
- This new method aims to provide more consistent and accurate readings, overcoming challenges faced by previous continuous monitoring devices due to movement and other variables.
- The innovation could benefit both home users and clinical settings, improving diagnosis and monitoring by offering reliable blood pressure data.

## [Grace Hopper, Nvidia's Halfway APU](https://chipsandcheese.com/2024/07/31/grace-hopper-nvidias-halfway-apu/)

- Nvidia and AMD are leading the high-performance GPU market, with AMD leveraging its CPU capabilities to compete effectively.
- Nvidia's new Grace Hopper (GH200) combines a server-level CPU with its top-tier H100 datacenter GPU, featuring 72 Neoverse V2 cores, 480 GB of LPDDR5X memory, and 96 GB of HBM3 memory.
- GH200 aims to compete with AMD’s MI300A, showcasing Nvidia's strong entry into the CPU/GPU integration space, despite some performance issues and system instability during testing.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41206025)

- Nvidia's Grace Hopper APU (Accelerated Processing Unit) is a hybrid chip combining CPU and GPU capabilities, aimed at specific workloads like AI and data centers.
- The discussion highlights a potential shift in AI computing from cloud-based to self-hosted solutions, where AMD's APUs might have an edge due to their interconnect technology.
- The article raises questions about Nvidia's strategy and performance, particularly in terms of memory latency and the practical use cases for the Grace Hopper APU.

## [Hal Hickel on Creating Tarkin for Rogue One](http://fxrant.blogspot.com/2024/06/hal-hickel-on-creating-tarkin.html)

- Hal Hickel, Animation Supervisor for "Rogue One," detailed the creation process of the digital character Grand Moff Tarkin, clarifying misconceptions about its CGI.
- The process involved filming an actor, Guy Henry, in costume and replacing his head with a CG Tarkin head, using facial performance capture and a life cast of Peter Cushing’s face.
- This explanation highlights the intricate work of many artists and technicians at ILM (Industrial Light & Magic) to achieve a realistic digital human character, which many viewers did not realize was CGI.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41207417)

- Hal Hickel discusses the creation of the CGI character Tarkin for "Rogue One," highlighting the challenges and techniques used in the process.
- The inclusion of Tarkin, despite some viewers finding it uncanny, was a significant technical achievement and sparked discussions about the use of CGI and deepfake technology in films.
- The post also touches on the broader reception of "Rogue One" as a well-received, self-contained story within the Star Wars universe, appreciated for its unique narrative and connection to the original trilogy.

## [Larry Wall's Very Own Home Page](http://wall.org/%7Elarry/)

- Larry Wall, the creator of the Perl programming language, has a personal website under construction, sharing his interests and personal updates.
- Wall's site includes links to his notable talks, such as the "State of the Onion" addresses at Perl Conferences and his views on Perl as a postmodern computer language.
- He provides updates on his personal life, including a diary about his cornea transplant, and offers resources and recommendations related to Perl and other software tools.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41207556)

- Larry Wall's personal website, known for its link to Perl, now results in a 404 error, causing disappointment among long-time followers.
- The discussion highlights nostalgia for the early internet days, with comments on the simplicity and speed of old websites and the use of tilde (~) in URLs.
- The conversation also touches on the evolution of web hosting, from ISP-provided space to platforms like Geocities and Neocities, reflecting changes in how people create and consume web content.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Susan Wojcicki has died" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Susan%20Wojcicki%20has%20died&subheading=Saturday%2C%20August%2010%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
