---
slug: '/2024/08/11'
---

# 2024-08-11

## [Verso – web browser built on top of the Servo web engine](https://github.com/versotile-org/verso)

- Verso is a web browser under development, built on the Servo web engine, and currently does not accept feature requests but welcomes testing assistance.
- Detailed installation instructions are provided for Windows, macOS, Linux (Flatpak), and Nix, highlighting the necessary tools and commands for each platform.
- Future development plans include multiwindow support, multiprocess mode, sandboxing on all platforms, and enabling the Gstreamer feature.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41215727)

- Verso is a new web browser built on the Servo web engine, aiming to innovate in browser technology.
- Recent proposals include funding to port SpiderMonkey (JavaScript engine) and WebRender (rendering engine) to Redox OS, a Unix-like operating system written in Rust.
- Discussions highlight excitement about browsers developed in Rust and Swift, though some skepticism exists regarding Swift's utility outside Apple environments.

## [I Created 175 Fonts Using Rust](https://chevyray.dev/blog/creating-175-fonts/)

- In December 2023, Chevy Ray launched a 175 Pixel Font Megapack, followed by 42 individual packs, using a custom toolchain built with Rust.
- The project aimed to improve font quality, support multiple languages (EFIGS), and automate processes like kerning, quality control, and deployment.
- The post details the step-by-step process, including creating font sheets, contouring glyphs, automating kerning, exporting files, and deploying using tools like itch.io and butler.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41213053)

- The author created 175 fonts using the Rust programming language, emphasizing efficient multi-core processing.
- Despite the impressive font designs, the restrictive license limits their use in open-source software, which has drawn some criticism.
- The post delves into the complexities of font creation, such as kerning (spacing between characters) and character support, noting some missing characters for certain languages.

## [OpenStreetMap Is Turning 20](https://stevecoast.substack.com/p/the-days-are-long-but-the-years-are)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41214259)

- OpenStreetMap (OSM) is celebrating its 20th anniversary, highlighting its long-standing contribution to open-source mapping.
- Tools like the StreetComplete mobile app make it easier for casual users to contribute, though dedicated local mappers are crucial for maintaining up-to-date data.
- Despite challenges like outdated data and competition from commercial products, OSM remains a valuable resource, particularly for outdoor activities like hiking and cycling, and has inspired numerous apps and services.

## [Firefox Browser Ported to HaikuOS](https://discuss.haiku-os.org/t/progress-on-porting-firefox/13493?page=7)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41214762)

- Firefox has been successfully ported to HaikuOS, a platform that originally inspired its creation, marking a significant milestone after 20 years.
- The BeOS community initially created a simplified version of Mozilla, which eventually evolved into Firefox, making this port a full-circle moment.
- HaikuOS is praised for its responsive interface but criticized for lacking modern features such as WiFi support, though the community remains dedicated to its development.

## [Things I Won't Work With: Dimethylcadmium (2013)](https://www.science.org/content/blog-post/things-i-won-t-work-dimethylcadmium)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41211540)

- The post discusses the hazardous nature of dimethylcadmium, a chemical compound with a notably foul odor, and the historical context of chemists using unsafe methods to evaluate chemicals.
- It highlights the evolution of safety standards in chemistry, contrasting past practices like tasting and smelling chemicals with modern, safer methods.
- The conversation includes anecdotes about chemists' experiences with various chemicals, emphasizing the importance of current safety protocols and the dangers of past practices.

## [DEF CON's response to the badge controversy](https://old.reddit.com/r/Defcon/comments/1ep00ln/def_cons_response_to_the_badge_controversy/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41211519)

- DEF CON and Entropic Engineering (EE) are in a dispute over the production of electronic badges, with DEF CON alleging EE exceeded the budget by 60% and submitted bad-faith charges.
- EE contends they warned DEF CON about project risks, offered discounts to meet budget targets, but were still not fully compensated.
- An unauthorized easter egg in the firmware soliciting donations for EE led to the removal of firmware author Dmitry from a DEF CON talk, adding to the controversy.

## [Rust GUI Library via Flutter](https://cjycode.com/posts/rust-ui-flutter/)

- A new version (v2.0.0) of the Flutter-Rust bridge has been released, enabling seamless integration between Flutter and Rust by auto-translating complex syntaxes.
- This update includes support for arbitrary types, mutable references (&mut), asynchronous functions (async), traits, results, closures, and lifetimes, enhancing the interoperability between the two languages.
- The project also showcases how to write Rust applications with a GUI using Flutter, highlighting the practical applications of this bridge.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41213711)

- A new version (v2.0.0) of the Flutter-Rust bridge has been released, enabling seamless integration between Flutter and Rust for GUI applications.
- The project has seen significant evolution and contributions, with users appreciating its simplicity and hot reload feature, sometimes preferring it over React.
- Discussions include concerns about Flutter's future under Google's control, but many users value its ease of use and performance, with comparisons to frameworks like Tauri and Crux.

## [The Gervais Principle, or the Office According to “The Office” (2009)](https://www.ribbonfarm.com/2009/10/07/the-gervais-principle-or-the-office-according-to-the-office/)

- The Gervais Principle, derived from "The Office," categorizes employees into Sociopaths, Clueless, and Losers, offering a new theory of management.
- Sociopaths drive the organization, Clueless individuals are promoted over-performing Losers, and Losers trade long-term potential for short-term stability.
- This principle explains character dynamics in "The Office" and aligns with Gareth Morgan’s metaphor of organizations as psychic prisons.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41214180)

- The Gervais Principle, inspired by "The Office," posits that organizations often become rigid and disconnected, leading to their eventual downfall rather than reform.
- Critics argue that institutions like universities and government agencies lack competitive pressure, resulting in "zombie institutions" that are stagnant and ineffective.
- The principle categorizes individuals into sociopaths, clueless, and losers, with sociopaths promoting over-performing losers to middle management, sparking debate about its real-world applicability.

## [Entropic Engineering DEFCON 32 Statement](https://www.entropicengineering.com/defcon-32-statement)

- Entropic Engineering was tasked by DEFCON to create an electronic badge with a gaming element for DEFCON 32, utilizing the unreleased Raspberry Pi RP 2350 chip.
- Despite successful prototype development and ongoing production, DEFCON halted payments and requested a work stoppage, leaving Entropic Engineering unpaid for completed work and parts.
- Negotiations for fair compensation have failed, and Entropic Engineering continued contributing to the project out of community dedication, despite not expecting payment.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41212899)

- Entropic Engineering and DEFCON 32 are in a dispute over badge production costs and responsibilities, with miscommunications about budget limits and the role of a firmware developer.
- DEFCON claims Entropic exceeded budgets, while Entropic argues they were underpaid; a firmware developer added a controversial donation screen without an official contract, escalating the conflict.
- The incident highlights the necessity of clear agreements and communication in project management, as the full facts and contracts are not publicly available.

## [CrowdStrike accepting the PwnieAwards for "most epic fail" at defcon](https://twitter.com/singe/status/1822324795645575263)

- CrowdStrike received the "most epic fail" award at the Pwnie Awards during DEF CON, a prominent cybersecurity conference.
- The Pwnie Awards are known for humorously recognizing both achievements and failures in the cybersecurity industry.
- This incident highlights the community's ability to self-reflect and acknowledge mistakes in a light-hearted manner.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41217037)

- CrowdStrike received the Pwnie Award for "most epic fail" at Defcon, leading to widespread criticism.
- Critics argue that the software industry avoids liability, unlike other sectors where such failures would result in severe consequences, impacting hospitals, banks, airlines, and IT operations.
- The debate centers on whether software engineers should face similar liability and accountability as civil engineers, with some viewing CrowdStrike's acceptance of the award as insensitive given the significant damages caused.

## [Stapler: I remade a 32 year old classic Macintosh app](https://blog.gingerbeardman.com/2024/08/10/stapler-i-remade-a-32-year-old-classic-macintosh-app/)

- A developer has recreated a 32-year-old classic Macintosh app called Stapler for modern macOS, inspired by the original Stapler and LaunchList.
- The new app allows users to collect and launch apps, files, and folders related to specific tasks, featuring drag and drop and zero-click auto-launch, and is available on GitHub.
- Written in Swift and SwiftUI, the app requires macOS 14.0 or newer and was developed as a fun weekend project.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41212193)

- A user has recreated a 32-year-old classic Macintosh app called Stapler, which emphasizes task-based workflows over app-based or document-based ones.
- This contrasts with modern MacOS, which users find frustrating due to its app-centric design, leading to challenges in managing multiple windows and apps.
- The discussion includes suggestions for tools like Stay, Moom, and Keyboard Maestro to enhance workflow and a desire for a more task-centric OS, akin to the Xerox Star & Smalltalk systems.

## [The surveilled society: Who is watching you and how](https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/national/524791/the-surveilled-society-who-is-watching-you-and-how)

- Analysis of AI-enabled cameras in public spaces in New Zealand, focusing on privacy and security implications.
- Legal challenges and public concerns about various surveillance technologies, including bus cameras, ANPR systems, and airport facial recognition.
- Discussion on the global trend towards surveillance-as-a-service and related privacy issues.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41213151)

- High-tech billboards and smart screens in public spaces are increasingly using surveillance technologies like number-plate recognition and mood gauging to tailor advertisements to individuals.
- Facial recognition cameras are being installed in various locations, such as bars and sports venues, to count people and identify banned individuals, raising privacy concerns.
- Credit card readers and POS (Point of Sale) systems are capable of collecting detailed transaction data, which can be exploited for surveillance and data profiling.

## [US FDA approves nasal spray alternative to EpiPen for allergic reactions](https://www.reuters.com/business/healthcare-pharmaceuticals/us-fda-approves-first-nasal-spray-allergic-reactions-2024-08-09/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41212364)

- The US FDA has approved neffy, a nasal spray alternative to the EpiPen, for treating allergic reactions.
- Neffy offers a 30-month shelf life, can withstand temperatures up to 122°F, and remains usable even if accidentally frozen, enhancing storage convenience.
- Priced at $199 for two doses, with some insurance plans offering it for $25, neffy is expected to benefit needle-phobic individuals and facilitate easier administration by non-medical personnel, potentially increasing market competition and reducing prices.

## [AMD's Strix Point: Zen 5 Hits Mobile](https://chipsandcheese.com/2024/08/10/amds-strix-point-zen-5-hits-mobile/)

- AMD's Zen 5 architecture debuts in mobile with the Ryzen AI 9 HX 370, part of the Strix Point APUs, featuring Zen 5 cores, RDNA 3.5 iGPU, and AI capabilities.
- Strix Point includes 12 Zen 5 cores in two clusters, a high-performance cluster with four cores at 5.15 GHz and a density-optimized cluster with eight cores at 3.3 GHz, using a 128-bit LPDDR5-7500 setup.
- Zen 5 architecture introduces significant improvements in branch prediction, fetch and decode stages, and backend resources, focusing on IPC (Instructions Per Cycle) gains rather than clock speed increases.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41212271)

- AMD's Strix Point, featuring Zen 5 architecture, has been released for mobile devices, sparking significant interest in the tech community.
- The discussion highlights the competitive landscape between AMD's new chips and Apple's M1, focusing on performance, power efficiency, and architectural differences.
- The release is notable for its potential to challenge Apple's dominance in the mobile CPU market, with comparisons showing AMD's advancements in efficiency and performance.

## [My 70 year old grandma is learning to code and made a word game](https://grandmasword.com)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41217109)

- A 70-year-old grandmother created a word game, grandmasword.com, which has garnered both praise and constructive criticism.
- Users suggested improvements like adding hints or a "give up" button and reported some bugs, especially on mobile devices.
- The game is appreciated for its potential appeal to various age groups and language learners, receiving overall positive feedback.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Verso – web browser built on top of the Servo web engine" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Verso%20%E2%80%93%20web%20browser%20built%20on%20top%20of%20the%20Servo%20web%20engine&subheading=Sunday%2C%20August%2011%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
