---
slug: '/2024/08/14'
---

# 2024-08-14

## [If YouTube had actual channels](https://ytch.xyz)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41247023)

- A new web app, ytch.xyz, simulates traditional TV channels using YouTube content, offering a continuous viewing experience without the need to select videos manually.
- Users appreciate the nostalgic TV-like experience, where channels don't pause when switching, creating a Fear of Missing Out (FOMO) effect and reducing decision fatigue.
- Feedback includes requests for additional features like volume control, mono audio support, and permalinks for channels, highlighting the community's engagement and interest in enhancing the platform.

## [Disney seeks dismissal of wrongful death lawsuit citing waiver in Disney+ terms](https://wdwnt.com/2024/08/disney-dismissal-wrongful-death-lawsuit/)

- Disney has requested a Florida court to dismiss a wrongful death lawsuit filed by Jeffrey Piccolo, whose wife died from anaphylaxis after dining at Raglan Road Irish Pub in Disney Springs.
- Disney cited an arbitration waiver in the Disney+ terms and conditions, which Piccolo reportedly agreed to in 2019, arguing that disputes must be resolved through arbitration.
- Piccolo's attorneys argue that the arbitration agreement is unreasonable and does not apply to Tangsuan's estate, calling Disney's motion "preposterous." Disney declined to comment.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41242400)

- Disney is attempting to dismiss a wrongful death lawsuit by referencing a waiver in the Disney+ terms of service.
- Critics argue this strategy aims to exhaust opponents with limited resources, potentially resulting in lower settlements and raising concerns about Disney's public image.
- The case questions the enforceability of arbitration clauses in unrelated incidents, as the deceased never signed up for Disney+, only her husband did.

## [Ex-Kansas police chief who raided local newspaper criminally charged](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/article/2024/aug/13/marion-county-police-newspaper-raid-charges)

- Former Kansas police chief Gideon Cody has been charged with felony obstruction of justice for allegedly persuading a potential witness to withhold information during an investigation into his conduct.
- The raid on the Marion County Record newspaper in August 2023, led by Cody, ignited a national debate about press freedom, with the newspaper's publisher attributing his mother's heart attack and death to the raid.
- Cody's justification for the raid, citing identity theft and computer crimes, was dismissed by prosecutors who found no crime was committed; his attorneys in a federal lawsuit are not representing him in the criminal case.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41240755)

- A former Kansas police chief has been criminally charged for instructing a witness to delete text messages following a raid on a local newspaper.
- The raid, which was based on unfounded identity theft suspicions, was deemed unlawful but not criminal, leading to discussions on law enforcement accountability.
- Despite multiple officers being involved in the raid, only the chief is facing charges, highlighting issues within the legal system's handling of such cases.

## [Examples of Great URL Design (2023)](https://blog.jim-nielsen.com/2023/examples-of-great-urls/)

- Thoughtful URL design is crucial as URLs are used across various platforms, devices, and contexts, including scripting, printed references, and QR codes.
- Examples of great URL design include StackOverflow, Slack, Jessica Hische, GitHub, and NPM, each demonstrating unique approaches to balancing usability, readability, and functionality.
- These examples highlight how well-designed URLs can significantly enhance user experience and navigation efficiency.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41243992)

- The post discusses the evolution and design of URLs, highlighting how different platforms and tools have approached URL structuring over the years.
- It emphasizes the importance of "cruft-free" URLs, which are clean and devoid of unnecessary elements, and how this concept has been implemented in various systems like WordPress and Notion.
- The conversation includes opinions on the relevance of file extensions in URLs, the benefits of including dates in blog URLs, and the SEO advantages of human-readable slugs.

## [Rust Atomics and Locks (2023)](https://marabos.nl/atomics/)

- The book focuses on Rust's concurrency capabilities, addressing common challenges like memory ordering bugs and providing practical guidance for implementing concurrent data structures and locks.
- Authored by Mara Bos, a team lead of the Rust library team, it covers low-level concurrency topics such as atomics, memory ordering, and OS APIs, helping readers build primitives like mutexes and condition variables.
- Key learnings include understanding Rust's type system for concurrency, atomic operations on Intel and ARM processors, and writing correct concurrent code, with code examples available on GitHub.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41239913)

- The book "Rust Atomics and Locks" (2023) explores Rust's concurrency mechanisms, such as Mutex and RwLock, and is recommended for those interested in low-level or embedded programming.
- Rust initially used Windows SRWLocks but switched to WaitOnAddress in Windows 8 due to a bug in SRWLocks that could grant a Write Lock instead of a Read Lock.
- The book is praised for its comprehensive and clear explanations, particularly on memory ordering, making it valuable even for those not using Rust.

## [Grok-2 Beta Release](https://x.ai/blog/grok-2)

- Grok-2, an upgrade from Grok-1.5, introduces advanced chat, coding, and reasoning capabilities, with a smaller version called Grok-2 mini also available.
- Grok-2 outperforms Claude 3.5 Sonnet and GPT-4-Turbo in benchmarks like GPQA, MMLU, MATH, and vision-based tasks, and is available in beta on 𝕏 and through an enterprise API later this month.
- Grok-2 and Grok-2 mini offer advanced text and vision understanding, with enhanced features on the 𝕏 platform, and are accessible to 𝕏 Premium and Premium+ users.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41242979)

- xAI has released the Grok-2 Beta, a new AI model, which has garnered significant attention due to its association with Elon Musk and its controversial training data sources, including tweets.
- Critics point out the ethical inconsistencies of xAI, noting that despite Musk's criticisms of OpenAI for not being open-source and training on tweets, xAI follows similar practices.
- The release has sparked debates on the ethical implications of AI development, particularly regarding data usage rights and the transparency of AI models.

## [Sort, sweep, and prune: Collision detection algorithms (2023)](https://leanrada.com/notes/sweep-and-prune/)

- Sweep-and-prune is highlighted as an efficient algorithm for collision detection in video games, reducing time complexity from O(n²) to O(n log n + m).
- The post is divided into two parts, with Part 1 covering a simplified version and Part 2 delving into more sophisticated versions, both with visual comparisons and code examples.
- Sorting objects by their minimum x-coordinate allows skipping unnecessary collision checks, significantly improving performance over the naive approach.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41241942)

- The author recommends using insertion sort for collision detection due to the nearly sorted nature of object movements between frames, despite faster algorithms like mergesort or quicksort.
- Modern algorithms such as Pattern Defeating Quicksort and Glidesort are also efficient for these cases.
- Alternatives to sorting include looser indexing structures or spatial partitioning methods to identify potential collisions.

## [Vaultwarden: Unofficial Bitwarden compatible server written in Rust](https://github.com/dani-garcia/vaultwarden)

- Vaultwarden is an alternative implementation of the Bitwarden server API in Rust, designed for self-hosted deployments and compatible with Bitwarden clients.
- Previously known as Bitwarden_RS, it was renamed to avoid confusion with the official Bitwarden server and is not affiliated with Bitwarden, Inc.
- Key features include full Bitwarden API implementation, support for various authentication methods (U2F, YubiKey, Duo), and additional functionalities like Emergency Access and Send Vault API.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41243147)

- Vaultwarden is an unofficial Bitwarden-compatible server written in Rust, praised for its reliability in self-hosting scenarios.
- Users discuss the trade-offs between self-hosting Vaultwarden for control and security versus using Bitwarden's cloud service for professional reliability.
- Conversations also touch on the importance of monitoring updates, the risks of using tools like Watchtower, and comparisons with other password managers like Pass or KeePass.

## [US Air Force avoids PFAS water cleanup, citing Supreme Court's Chevron ruling](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/article/2024/aug/12/air-force-epa-water-pfas-tucson)

- The US Air Force is refusing to clean up PFAS-contaminated drinking water in Tucson, Arizona, citing a Supreme Court ruling that limits regulatory authority.
- The EPA issued an emergency order for the Air Force to address the contamination, but the Air Force claims the EPA lacks enforcement authority, while legal experts argue otherwise.
- This dispute underscores the broader impact of the Supreme Court's decision on environmental regulation, with the EPA insisting the contamination poses an imminent danger and that the Air Force is financially responsible.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41240300)

- The US Air Force is avoiding PFAS water cleanup, referencing the Supreme Court's Chevron ruling, which limits regulatory agencies' power.
- Critics argue that requiring Congress to clarify ambiguous laws could slow down essential regulations, especially amid congressional deadlock.
- The ruling has raised concerns about the courts' role in regulatory decisions and the potential for increased litigation over environmental issues.

## [ARPA-H announces awards to develop novel technologies for precise tumor removal](https://arpa-h.gov/news-and-events/arpa-h-announces-awards-develop-novel-technologies-precise-tumor-removal)

- The Biden-Harris Administration announced ARPA-H awards totaling up to $150 million for eight teams developing precise tumor removal technologies.
- The Precision Surgical Interventions (PSI) program aims to enhance cancer detection and reduce surgical errors, with projects focusing on cancer and healthy structure localization.
- Notable projects include Tulane University's imaging system with AI, Rice University's ultraviolet epifluorescence microscope, and University of Washington's lightsheet scanner, among others.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41239800)

- ARPA-H, a division of NIH, has announced awards for developing precise tumor removal technologies, emphasizing breakthrough processes and devices.
- Unlike NIH's traditional peer-review funding, ARPA-H has a commercial and translational focus, similar to DARPA, aiming for practical applications.
- This initiative aligns with broader efforts like Biden's cancer moonshot and CAR-T therapy, highlighting the importance of both surgical advancements and broader prevention strategies.

## [Larry Tesler pioneered cut-and-paste, the one-button mouse, WYSIWIG (2005)](https://spectrum.ieee.org/of-modes-and-men)

- Larry Tesler, a pioneer in user interface innovations, significantly influenced computing with contributions like cut-and-paste, the one-button mouse, and WYSIWYG (What You See Is What You Get) desktop publishing.
- Tesler's career highlights include developing the first document-formatting software at Stanford, overseeing the first cut-and-paste text operation at Xerox PARC, and contributing to the Apple Lisa and Macintosh computers.
- Despite setbacks like the failure of Apple's Newton handheld computer, Tesler continued to innovate, later joining Yahoo as vice president of user experience and design.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41244847)

- Larry Tesler, a computing pioneer, developed cut-and-paste, the one-button mouse, and WYSIWYG (What You See Is What You Get).
- Tesler's tenure at Amazon was marked by clashes with Jeff Bezos over usability studies, leading to his departure; users still find Amazon's UI complex.
- Tesler's contributions, including Tesler’s Law of Conservation of Complexity, have been influential in UI design, and he played a role in the development of ARM, aiding Apple's financial survival.

## [LLM-based sentiment analysis of Hacker News posts between Jan 2020 and June 2023](https://outerbounds.com/blog/hacker-news-sentiment/)

- Analysis of Hacker News posts from January 2020 to June 2023 using LLama3 70B LLM reveals key trends in community engagement.
- AI, natural language processing, and technology topics have surged, while COVID-related discussions have declined; sentiments are generally positive, with programming and open source being loved, and police misconduct and employee monitoring being disliked.
- Divisive topics include GNOME vs. KDE, Google, government regulations, and venture capital; the study processed 100,000 posts and 16M comments using Metaflow, showcasing the efficiency of modern tools.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41241124)

- A study analyzed sentiment in Hacker News posts from Jan 2020 to June 2023 using Large Language Models (LLMs), sparking debate on the effectiveness of LLMs versus traditional sentiment analysis tools like NLTK and spaCy.
- The discussion highlights the ease of deploying LLMs and their rapid improvement, but also notes that specialized models may still outperform LLMs in niche tasks like sentiment analysis.
- The analysis revealed interesting trends, such as the community's negative sentiment towards international students, and raised questions about the accuracy and methodology of using LLMs for sentiment analysis.

## [Texas sues GM for unlaw­ful­ly collecting and selling dri­vers' pri­vate data [pdf]](https://www.texasattorneygeneral.gov/sites/default/files/images/press/General%20Motors%20Data%20Privacy%20Petition%20Filed.pdf)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41246050)

- Texas is suing GM, alleging that its Onstar Smart driver service unlawfully collected and sold drivers' private data to insurance companies without customer consent.
- The lawsuit has ignited debates about imposing substantial financial penalties to prevent similar violations, drawing parallels to Texas's $1.4 billion settlement with Meta over facial-recognition data misuse.
- Critics suggest that insurance companies should also face accountability for utilizing data obtained through illegal means.

## [The Syndicated Actor Model](https://syndicate-lang.org/about/)

- The Syndicated Actor model addresses challenges in programming interactive systems by integrating Actors with Tuplespace-like shared state and using eventually-consistent state replication.
- The Syndicate Domain-Specific Language (DSL) extends programming languages to express syndicated actor and conversational concurrency concepts, emphasizing secure state replication and observation using object capabilities and Macaroons.
- This model and DSL aim to improve upon existing models like Actors, Tuplespaces, and Publish/Subscribe by offering better fault-tolerance, consistency, and support for stateful conversations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41244468)

- The Syndicated Actor Model integrates Carl Hewitt's actor model with Tuple Spaces, facilitating message-passing and dynamic communication among concurrent actors.
- This model enables neighboring actors to coordinate using a pub/sub-like system, bridging state synchronization and dynamic topologies.
- It is compared to Datalog systems and shares similarities with other actor models such as Erlang and Akka, with practical examples available in Racket code.

## [Inside the "3 billion people" national public data breach](https://www.troyhunt.com/inside-the-3-billion-people-national-public-data-breach/)

- A significant public data breach occurred on August 14, 2024, affecting the personal information of 3 billion individuals.
- This breach is notable due to its massive scale, potentially impacting nearly half of the global population.
- The incident underscores the critical need for enhanced cybersecurity measures and data protection protocols worldwide.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41248104)

- A significant data breach has exposed the personal information of 3 billion individuals, making it publicly accessible on platforms like Breachforum/Leakbase.
- Discussions reveal skepticism about data opt-out services, with some being operated by data brokers, highlighting mixed effectiveness.
- The breach underscores the urgent need for improved data protection laws and alternatives to Social Security Numbers for identification, with suggestions to freeze credit and use privacy tools as immediate measures.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="If YouTube had actual channels" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=If%20YouTube%20had%20actual%20channels&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20August%2014%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
