---
slug: '/2024/08/16'
---

# 2024-08-16

## [CEOs are running companies from afar even as workers return to office](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-08-15/starbucks-victoria-s-secret-are-part-of-broader-trend-of-remote-ceos)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41261986)

- CEOs are managing companies remotely while expecting their employees to return to the office, leading to a disconnect and potential frustration.
- The inconsistency in work-from-home policies often arises from executives' subjective perceptions rather than data-driven decisions.
- The ongoing debate over remote work underscores the importance of creating better office environments and offering flexible schedules to encourage attendance.

## [CSS Grid Areas](https://ishadeed.com/article/css-grid-area/)

- CSS Grid support has been available in all major browsers since March 2017, but the grid template areas feature remains underutilized in 2024.
- The article provides a comprehensive guide on using CSS grid template areas, including syntax, rules, and practical examples for various layouts.
- It highlights advanced use cases such as conditional layouts with CSS :has() and multilingual support, aiming to encourage more developers to leverage this powerful feature.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41262691)

- CSS Grid is highlighted for its advantages in creating complex, responsive layouts, complementing the capabilities of Flexbox.
- The discussion emphasizes the utility of `grid-template-columns`, `grid-gap`, and grid template areas for layout adjustments, especially in responsive design.
- Interactive tools and resources, such as Grid Garden and CSS Tricks articles, are recommended for learning and mastering CSS Grid and Flexbox.

## [Former Google CEO Eric Schmidt's Leaked Stanford Talk](https://github.com/ociubotaru/transcripts/blob/main/Stanford_ECON295%E2%A7%B8CS323_I_2024_I_The_Age_of_AI%2C_Eric_Schmidt.txt)

- Eric Schmidt's talk at Stanford's ECON295/CS323 class in 2024 covers rapid advancements in AI, such as large context windows, AI agents, and text-to-action capabilities.
- Schmidt highlights NVIDIA's dominance due to CUDA optimizations and discusses the societal impact of AI, the gap between frontier models and smaller companies, and the role of universities in AI research.
- The session concludes with a Q&A addressing topics like Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) and the comparative advantages of humans and machines.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41263143)

- Former Google CEO Eric Schmidt suggested that Google lost to OpenAI in generative AI due to prioritizing work-life balance and remote work over competitive success.
- Critics argue that Schmidt's view overlooks deeper issues such as leadership, politics, and bureaucracy within Google.
- The discussion also covered competitive dynamics between the US and China, and the impact of corporate culture on innovation.

## [One man's quest to restore the first-ever Air Force One](https://www.atlasobscura.com/articles/first-air-force-one)

- Karl Stoltzfus, an aviation history enthusiast, is restoring President Dwight D. Eisenhower’s original Air Force One, Columbine II, a 1948 Lockheed C-121 Constellation.
- The restoration project, initiated after Stoltzfus purchased the neglected plane for $1.5 million in 2015, involves extensive repairs and historical accuracy, costing about $500,000 annually.
- Dynamic Aviation, through the nonprofit First Air Force One, aims to complete the restoration in three years with an additional $12 million, intending to showcase Columbine II at air shows as a symbol of American history and presidential legacy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41260345)

- A restoration project is underway to make the first jet-powered Air Force One airworthy for air shows, currently located at the Museum of Flight in Seattle.
- The aircraft includes unique features like meeting rooms, communication equipment, and a fake temperature control installed for President Johnson.
- Other museums, such as the Air Force Museum in Ohio and the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library, also display early Air Force Ones and presidential limos.

## [Aristotle – How to live a good life](https://ralphammer.com/aristotle-how-to-live-a-good-life/)

- Aristotle's "Nicomachean Ethics" outlines how to live a good life by fulfilling one's unique function through a clear intellect and noble character.
- Virtues of intellect include art, intelligence, scientific knowledge, prudence, and wisdom, while virtues of character involve balancing emotions and actions through habituation.
- Happiness, according to Aristotle, is a lifetime of virtuous activity, emphasizing that excellence is achieved through continuous practice and not merely an inherent trait.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41263951)

- Aristotle's philosophy on living a good life focuses on virtue and fulfillment rather than mere pleasure, emphasizing a deeper sense of flourishing.
- Critics argue his views may not apply to those struggling with basic needs, but examples like Epictetus, a former slave, are cited to counter this.
- Despite Aristotle's privileged background, his teachings provide valuable insights into character development and societal orientation towards meeting everyone's basic needs.

## [PyScript: An open source platform for Python in the browser](https://pyscript.net/)

- PyScript is an open-source platform that enables running Python directly in the browser, combining web accessibility with Python's widespread use.
- Key features include ease of use, expressiveness, scalability, shareability, universality, security, and power, making it suitable for various applications.
- Developed by Anaconda, Inc. in 2022, PyScript aims to make Python accessible anywhere a browser is available, with comprehensive documentation for all skill levels.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41263843)

- PyScript is an open-source platform enabling users to run Python code directly in the browser, using Pyodide or MicroPython.
- A user demonstrated a panel dashboard of Dallas crime statistics, noting initial startup delays due to library installations and dataset loading, but responsive performance afterward.
- Discussions focused on memory usage, performance bottlenecks, and comparisons with tools like Tableau and Blazor, with mixed opinions on PyScript's performance and practical applications.

## [ImRAD is a GUI builder for the ImGui library](https://github.com/tpecholt/imrad)

- ImRAD is a GUI builder for the ImGui library, capable of generating and parsing C++ code for direct application use across Windows, Linux, and MacOS.
- Key features include designing various window types, GLFW integration, Android activity window templates, a wide range of widgets, layout generation, property binding, event handlers, and customizable window styles.
- The source code is GPL-licensed, but the generated code can be used in any project, with binaries available for download or buildable from the repository using CMake.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41261426)

- ImRAD is a GUI builder for the ImGui library, featuring a custom parser for a subset of C++ and implemented in a single header.
- Users are discussing its potential, including the idea of building it as a WebAssembly (wasm) HTML5 app for easier GUI creation in browsers.
- Comparisons are made to older RAD (Rapid Application Development) tools like Visual Basic and Delphi, with mentions of alternatives such as Lazarus and U++.

## [Cleaning up the aging brain: Scientists restore brain's trash disposal system](https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2024/08/240815124156.htm)

- Scientists at the University of Rochester Medical Center have restored the brain's waste-clearing process in aging mice, potentially offering new treatments for Alzheimer's and Parkinson's using existing drugs.
- The research, published in Nature Aging, demonstrates that restoring cervical lymph vessel function can significantly improve the brain's ability to remove toxic waste, which slows with age.
- The team used prostaglandin F2α, a drug aiding smooth muscle contraction, to revive the lymphatic system in older mice, enhancing cerebrospinal fluid flow and waste removal to levels seen in younger mice.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41260050)

- Scientists have successfully restored the brain's waste disposal system in aging brains, potentially extending lifespans.
- This research, alongside Dr. David Sinclair's anti-aging studies, highlights significant advancements in longevity science, despite debates about Sinclair's credibility.
- Creatine and melatonin are mentioned for their cognitive benefits, with exercise, good sleep, and diet also recommended for brain health maintenance.

## [RP2350 PicoDVI Preview](https://github.com/Wren6991/PicoDVI/commit/ca941baf37e3f04738b8e641896d85feb3430385)

- The PicoDVI project has been updated to include support for the RP2350 microcontroller, including RISC-V architecture.
- Significant changes include porting Arm assembly code in `libdvi` and `libsprite` to RISC-V, and performance tweaks for Cortex-M33.
- The RGB encoding now defaults to using SIO TMDS encoders on RP2350, with an option to disable it via configuration.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41260679)

- The RP2350 introduces the HSTX interface, targeting video output with minimal CPU usage, which is a significant upgrade from the RP2040's bit-banging DVI method.
- HSTX includes a built-in TMDS (Transition-Minimized Differential Signaling) encoder supporting various pixel formats, making it suitable for higher resolution outputs like 720p at 60Hz with overclocking.
- The RP2350 also supports RV32 cores, and the project aims to teach TMDS encoding intricacies, providing an open reference for developers.

## [We survived 10k requests/second: Switching to signed asset URLs in an emergency](https://hardcover.app/blog/how-we-survived-10k-requests-second-switching-to-signed-urls)

- Hardcover experienced a surge in Google Cloud Storage expenses due to someone downloading up to 10,000 images per second for 7 hours, leading to a 2,098% increase in costs.
- To mitigate this, they switched to using signed URLs, which expire after a set period and require specific parameters for access, and implemented rate limiting using the rack-attack gem.
- The new setup limits API requests to 60 per minute and website requests to 500 per minute, with plans to further improve rate limiting, reporting, and API access.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41260098)

- A developer faced a surge of 10,000 requests per second to their Google Cloud Storage bucket, leading to high costs and the need for an immediate solution.
- The post discusses the implementation of signed URLs to control access and mitigate the impact of such high request rates, explaining the concept and benefits of signed URLs.
- The discussion highlights various strategies and tools, such as using CDNs (Content Delivery Networks) and rate limiting, to handle similar issues and improve security and performance.

## [Hermes 3: The First Fine-Tuned Llama 3.1 405B Model](https://lambdalabs.com/blog/unveiling-hermes-3-the-first-fine-tuned-llama-3.1-405b-model-is-on-lambdas-cloud)

- Nous Research has introduced Hermes 3, the first full-parameter fine-tune of Meta's Llama 3.1 405B model, available on Lambda’s 1-Click Cluster.
- Hermes 3 is a neutrally-aligned generalist model with advanced reasoning capabilities, accessible for free via Lambda Chat Completions API and Lambda Chat interface.
- The model is optimized using techniques like RLHF and FP8 quantization, reducing VRAM and disk requirements by 50%, and can scale from a single node to a multi-node cluster.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41260040)

- Lambda Labs has released Hermes 3, the first fine-tuned version of the Llama 3.1 model, boasting 405 billion parameters.
- Users are interested in Hermes 3 for its potential to handle sensitive topics without censorship, a common issue with other models like OpenAI and Anthropic.
- The model is available on Hugging Face and can be tested in the Nous Research Discord or Lambda Labs' new chat, though it requires significant computational resources to run locally.

## [Slow is smooth, smooth is fast: Navy SEALs' efficiency secret](https://www.navyseal.com/slow-is-smooth-smooth-is-fast/)

- The phrase "Slow is smooth, smooth is fast" is a key mantra for Navy SEALs, emphasizing precision over speed to avoid mistakes during high-stakes missions.
- This principle, exemplified in operations like Neptune Spear, can be applied in business and project management to enhance efficiency and prevent errors.
- Adopting this approach fosters better team dynamics and reduces stress, demonstrating that taking time to ensure accuracy can lead to faster overall progress.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41260603)

- The mantra "Slow is smooth, smooth is fast" highlights the importance of efficiency and is used in various disciplines, including Navy SEAL training and Brazilian Jiu Jitsu.
- Beginners in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu often struggle due to tension and shallow breathing, emphasizing the need for calmness and proper breathing techniques.
- This principle is applicable in diverse fields such as weightlifting, boxing, and glassblowing, where a steady, methodical approach leads to better results by avoiding mistakes caused by rushing.

## [Pixel smartphones delivered with secret but inactive remote maintenance](https://www.heise.de/en/news/Pixel-smartphones-delivered-with-secret-but-inactive-remote-maintenance-9836887.html)

- Pixel smartphones shipped with inactive remote maintenance software at Verizon's request, posing a potential spyware risk if activated.
- The vulnerability, present since 2017, was discovered by iVerify and traced to a hidden Android package, with no known active exploitation.
- Verizon plans to release an update to remove the software, originally developed by Smith Micro for store demos, emphasizing the need for transparency around third-party apps in operating systems.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41264070)

- Pixel smartphones have a hidden, inactive remote maintenance feature, sparking debate over its activation method and potential misuse.
- Concerns include the presence of preinstalled, unnecessary software and the broader issues of trust and control over personal devices.
- Privacy-focused alternatives like GrapheneOS, which do not include such carrier apps, are being advocated by some users.

## [Ditch banks – Go with money market funds and treasuries](https://thefinancebuff.com/goodbye-banks-credit-unions.html)

- Banks and credit unions offer lower interest rates on savings accounts and CDs compared to money market funds and Treasuries provided by brokers like Vanguard, Fidelity, and Schwab.
- Money market funds and Treasuries generally offer better rates with less fluctuation, providing more consistent and transparent returns.
- Switching to money market funds and Treasuries can yield higher returns and ensure market rates, making them a preferable option for low-maintenance and fair financial growth.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41262439)

- The post discusses the pros and cons of using money market funds and treasuries versus traditional bank savings accounts for managing personal finances.
- Key points include the potential for higher yields with money market funds and treasuries, but also the risks of market volatility and the lack of deposit insurance compared to bank accounts.
- The conversation highlights various financial products and strategies, such as bond ladders, short-term T-bills, and the benefits of using brokerages like Fidelity and Vanguard for better interest rates and tax advantages.

## [Crafting a 13KB Game: The Story of Space Huggers](https://frankforce.com/space-huggers-how-i-made-a-game-in-13-kilobytes/)

- Frank participated in the Js13kGames competition, creating "Space Huggers," a 13KB run-and-gun roguelike platformer inspired by Broforce and Contra.
- The game, built with Frank's custom JavaScript engine LittleJS, features procedurally generated environments, pixel art, and supports up to 4-player co-op.
- "Space Huggers" placed 8th out of 223 entries and later received an enhanced version on Newgrounds, achieving over 100K plays and positive feedback.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41264270)

- A developer created a game called "Space Huggers" that is only 13KB in size, showcasing impressive optimization and coding skills.
- The game is part of the js13kGames competition, which challenges developers to create games under 13KB, promoting creativity and efficient coding.
- Despite its small size, "Space Huggers" features advanced elements like sprite and tile map rendering with WebGL, aiming for high performance.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="CEOs are running companies from afar even as workers return to office" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=CEOs%20are%20running%20companies%20from%20afar%20even%20as%20workers%20return%20to%20office&subheading=Friday%2C%20August%2016%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
