---
slug: '/2024/08/21'
---

# 2024-08-21

## [Zen, a Arc-like open-source browser based on the Firefox engine](https://www.zen-browser.app/)

- Zen Alpha is a newly introduced web browser that emphasizes design, privacy, and a feature-rich experience.
- Key features include split views for multitasking, workspaces for organization, profile switching, and side web panels for quick access to favorite sites.
- Zen Alpha is noted for its speed, privacy, security, and customizable options, making it a compelling choice for users seeking a balanced and efficient browsing experience.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41303974)

- Zen is an open-source browser based on Firefox, offering unique features like web panels and a horizontal navigation bar, distinguishing it from Chromium-based browsers.
- Users appreciate its customization options but suggest improvements such as better web panel shortcuts and removing the URL bar for more vertical space.
- Zen is noted for its focus on aesthetics and privacy, with discussions on browser diversity and Firefox's challenges, though some users express concerns about performance claims and the need for more detailed documentation.

## [I've built my first successful side project, and I hate it](https://switowski.com/blog/i-have-built-my-first-successful-side-project-and-i-hate-it/)

- The author created a successful side project in 2020, earning over $15,000 by selling TradingView scripts for stock trading on Gumroad.
- Despite its financial success, the project became burdensome due to maintenance demands, customer inquiries, feature requests, and fraud attempts, leading to burnout.
- Key lessons include setting boundaries, using a merchant of record for global sales, preparing for consumer challenges, and providing excellent customer support for positive feedback and loyalty.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41308599)

- The author shares insights from running a small B2B SaaS (Business-to-Business Software as a Service) for two years, emphasizing the importance of managing early-stage challenges.
- Key lessons include the value of automation (but not too early), the necessity of clear and direct communication, and the benefits of increasing prices to filter out less serious customers.
- Running a business involves more than just engineering; it requires handling customer support, marketing, and disputes, with automation and clear expectations helping to manage the workload.

## [MIT leaders describe the experience of not renewing Elsevier contract](https://sparcopen.org/our-work/big-deal-knowledge-base/unbundling-profiles/mit-libraries/)

- MIT leaders report a positive experience after not renewing their largest journal contract with Elsevier, saving over 80% of their original spend, approximately $2 million annually.
- The transition to alternative access methods has been smooth, with minimal pushback from researchers and strong support from faculty and university administrators, aligning with MIT's values of open access and equity.
- MIT's principles-based framework, adopted in 2020, guided their decisions, and they continue to save costs while exploring collaborations with other libraries to invest in open publishing initiatives.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41303159)

- MIT has decided not to renew its contract with Elsevier, a major academic publisher, highlighting a significant shift towards open access and away from traditional publishing models.
- This decision is part of a broader movement against the monopolistic practices of large academic publishers, which have long controlled access to scholarly research.
- The move is seen as a step forward in the ongoing struggle for open access to research, a cause championed by many in the academic community, including the late Aaron Swartz.

## [Calling All Hackers](https://phrack.org/issues/71/17.html#article)

- Phrack Magazine Issue #71 was released on August 19, 2024, featuring a variety of articles on hacking, security, and technical exploits.
- The featured article, "Calling All Hackers" by cts, emphasizes the importance of understanding financial systems and encourages hackers to leverage their skills for positive change while maintaining integrity.
- Key topics in the issue include bypassing security mechanisms, PostgreSQL injections, and novel exploit strategies, showcasing cutting-edge research and techniques in the cybersecurity field.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41306128)

- A popular article on Phrack.org has garnered significant attention, with 409 points and 164 comments on Hacker News, indicating strong community engagement.
- The article discusses the impact of Zero Interest Rate Policy (ZIRP) on the tech industry, highlighting how it led to wasteful investments and a lack of meaningful innovation.
- The conversation reflects a broader sentiment among tech professionals about the need for sustainable growth and the negative effects of prioritizing short-term gains over long-term stability.

## [The semantic web is now widely adopted](https://csvbase.com/blog/13)

- csvbase is a website designed for sharing table data, utilizing the Dataset type in JSON-LD to describe tables in a machine-readable format.
- JSON-LD, a key component of the Semantic Web, enhances link previews and search results by embedding metadata in websites, and is widely adopted over alternatives like Open Graph Protocol and Twitter Cards.
- The Semantic Web, also known as the old Web 3.0, is now broadly adopted, making websites more machine-readable and improving automated link aggregation and search engine optimization.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41307011)

- The Semantic Web has not achieved widespread adoption due to a combination of bad luck and an incomplete vision.
- The absence of a significant, transformative event (like Wikipedia for Web 2.0) and the high cognitive cost versus tangible benefit for average users have hindered its progress.
- Despite these challenges, the Semantic Web's potential remains valuable, with future success likely dependent on creating better abstractions to balance cognitive cost and user benefit.

## [ShadPS4 – PlayStation 4 emulator](https://github.com/shadps4-emu/shadPS4)

- shadPS4 is an early-stage PlayStation 4 emulator available for Windows, Linux, and macOS, written in C++.
- Currently, it supports small games like Sonic Mania, Undertale, and Dysmantle, with development progressing slowly due to limited time.
- The project is open-source under the GPL-2.0 license, and contributions are welcome via the CONTRIBUTING.md file and pull requests (PRs).

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41307195)

- ShadPS4 is a PlayStation 4 emulator available on GitHub, sparking discussions about its capabilities and comparisons to other emulators like PCSX2 and Wine.
- Users are excited about the possibility of playing PS4 games, such as Bloodborne, on PC and devices like the Steam Deck, while also delving into technical challenges like shader recompilation and Direct3D.
- The conversation highlights the complexities of emulating PS4 hardware and the ongoing progress of the ShadPS4 project.

## [US judge throws out FTC's ban on non-compete agreements](https://www.ft.com/content/56770a82-3c3f-4739-9895-e2f97b6202b4)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41305591)

- A US judge has dismissed the FTC's ban on non-compete agreements, ruling it an unlawful extension of the agency's power.
- Judge Ada Brown in the Northern District of Texas concluded that the FTC lacked the statutory authority to issue such a rule.
- The decision has ignited debate on whether non-compete agreements suppress wages and limit worker mobility or protect business interests, highlighting the balance of power between regulatory agencies and legislative authority.

## [Why are Texas interchanges so tall?](https://practical.engineering/blog/2024/8/19/why-are-texas-interchanges-texas-so-tall)

- The Dallas High Five is one of the tallest highway interchanges globally, featuring five levels of roadways, 37 bridges, and over 700 columns, handling half a million vehicles daily.
- Texas interchanges are particularly tall due to the inclusion of frontage roads, which run parallel to highways, providing access to adjacent properties and reducing land acquisition costs.
- These towering structures reflect Texas's unique approach to highway design and significant investment in car infrastructure, sparking discussions about urban planning and transportation priorities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41302944)

- Texas interchanges are notably tall due to the widespread use of frontage roads, necessitating grade separation and additional layers.
- This design is unique to Texas, leading to more complex and higher interchanges compared to other states.
- The significant number of highway interchanges in Texas further contributes to the perception of their height and complexity.

## [Plasmo – A framework for building modern Chrome extensions](https://github.com/PlasmoHQ/plasmo)

- Itero is a new cloud service for browser extensions, offering instant beta testing and additional features.
- Plasmo Framework is a comprehensive SDK for developing browser extensions, supporting React, Typescript, and more, similar to Next.js.
- Key features include live-reloading, multi-browser targeting, automated deployment, and optional support for Svelte and Vue.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41304508)

- Plasmo is a framework designed for building modern Chrome extensions, with support for Firefox and other Chromium-based browsers.
- While Plasmo simplifies manifest creation and provides utilities for publishing extensions, some users find its abstraction excessive and prefer simpler tools like rollup.
- Plasmo's support for cross-browser compatibility makes it effective for building extensions for multiple browsers, though alternatives like WXT and Parcel are recommended for their speed and ease of use.

## [US Judge Strikes Down Ban on Worker 'Noncompete' Agreements](https://www.reuters.com/legal/us-judge-strikes-down-biden-administration-ban-worker-noncompete-agreements-2024-08-20/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41304695)

- A US judge invalidated the FTC's ban on worker noncompete agreements, labeling the rule as "arbitrary and capricious."
- The ruling permits the enforcement of noncompetes, though the FTC retains the ability to address them individually.
- This decision has ignited discussions on the balance of power between employers and employees, with critics highlighting the restrictions on worker mobility and supporters emphasizing the protection of trade secrets.

## [Ares Industries – Building low-cost cruise missiles](https://www.ycombinator.com/launches/Ler-ares-industries-building-low-cost-cruise-missiles)

- YC Fall 2024 batch applications are due by 8/27, encouraging startups to apply for the accelerator program.
- Ares Industries is developing low-cost, smaller cruise missiles aimed at enhancing U.S. defense capabilities, particularly against smaller naval targets.
- Founders Alex and Devan, with extensive defense and engineering backgrounds, are seeking aerospace engineers to join their innovative team.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41305736)

- Ares Industries aims to develop low-cost cruise missiles, sparking a discussion on YCombinator's forum about inefficiencies in the defense industry, such as middlemen, premium pricing, and project delays.
- Comparisons are drawn to SpaceX's cost-effective approach, with debates on barriers to entry and the potential for more affordable defense solutions.
- Ethical implications and the impact of such technologies on global conflicts are also discussed, alongside historical and geopolitical contexts, including the influence of the military-industrial complex.

## [How to Build a 50K Ton Forging Press](https://www.construction-physics.com/p/how-to-build-a-50000-ton-forging)

- The Heavy Press Program in the 1950s funded the construction of massive forging and extrusion presses to produce stronger and lighter aircraft parts, significantly reducing manufacturing costs and improving performance.
- These presses, operational by 1956, were crucial for both military and commercial aerospace applications, demonstrating the benefits of government investment in technology and manufacturing improvements.
- Although the U.S. led in this field initially, the capability to build such large machinery has shifted to other countries, highlighting the need for continued advancements in manufacturing technology to stay competitive.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41310384)

- Forging optimizes grain direction for strength, making it more complex than simple steel compression, and is crucial for components like piston rods and I-beams.
- The largest press, a 60,000-ton press built in 2018 in Los Angeles, underscores the strategic importance of massive presses in manufacturing, often overlooked by politicians.
- The U.S. Heavy Press Program significantly reduced costs in military and commercial aircraft manufacturing, but the U.S. still lacks a press for single-piece nuclear reactor vessels, relying on welding instead.

## [Australian government approves AAPowerLink project to export solar to Singapore](https://www.pv-tech.org/australian-government-approves-aapowerlink-project-to-export-solar-to-singapore/)

- The Australian government has approved Sun Cable's Australia-Asia Power Link (AAPowerLink) project, which aims to export solar energy to Singapore via a 4,300km subsea cable.
- The project will deploy between 17GW and 20GW of solar capacity and 36.42GWh to 42GWh of energy storage, supplying up to 15% of Singapore's electricity needs.
- This approval marks a significant milestone, with the project expected to commence electricity supply in the early 2030s and a final investment decision targeted by 2027.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41307166)

- The Australian government has greenlit the AAPowerLink project, which aims to export solar energy to Singapore through a 4,200km submarine cable.
- Led by Sun Cable, the project includes constructing a large solar farm and energy storage in Australia to deliver 2GW of power to Singapore.
- Despite concerns about feasibility and costs, technological advancements and potential economic and environmental benefits are propelling the project forward.

## [Handwriter.ttf – Handwriting Synthesis with Harfbuzz WASM](https://github.com/hsfzxjy/handwriter.ttf)

- A proof-of-concept project has been developed to generate and rasterize handwriting-style fonts at runtime using a WASM (WebAssembly) shaper.
- The project employs a lightweight RNN (Recurrent Neural Network) model, approximately 14MiB in size, to synthesize the fonts.
- This innovation showcases the potential of combining WASM and RNN for dynamic font generation, which could be significant for web and application developers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41307815)

- A new project, Handwriter.ttf, demonstrates synthesizing handwriting-style fonts at runtime using a lightweight RNN (Recurrent Neural Network) model and Harfbuzz WASM (WebAssembly) shaper.
- The project is experimental and not yet integrated into products, requiring a modified local program or Docker image for testing.
- The use of WASM and SIMD (Single Instruction, Multiple Data) extensions in this project highlights advanced techniques for font rendering and neural network inference.

## [Eli Lilly's weight loss drug slashes the risk of diabetes in long-term trial](https://www.cnbc.com/2024/08/20/eli-lilly-weight-loss-drug-cuts-risk-of-developing-diabetes-in-trial.html)

- Eli Lilly's weight loss drug, tirzepatide, reduced the risk of developing Type 2 diabetes by 94% in obese or overweight adults with prediabetes, according to a long-term study.
- The trial demonstrated sustained weight loss over three years, with patients on the highest dose experiencing a 22.9% average body weight decrease.
- The study underscores the potential of GLP-1 (glucagon-like peptide-1) drugs in managing obesity and diabetes, prompting Eli Lilly to plan submissions to a peer-reviewed journal and presentations at a medical conference.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41311222)

- Eli Lilly's weight loss drug has shown significant potential in reducing diabetes risk and aiding weight loss in a long-term trial.
- Users report reduced appetite and weight loss, though some still crave sugary foods; concerns include potential long-term side effects and the necessity for continuous use.
- The drug's high cost is a barrier, but it shows promise in addressing obesity and related health issues, with comparisons made to similar drugs like Ozempic.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Zen, a Arc-like open-source browser based on the Firefox engine" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Zen%2C%20a%20Arc-like%20open-source%20browser%20based%20on%20the%20Firefox%20engine&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20August%2021%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
