---
slug: '/2024/08/24'
---

# 2024-08-24

## [Did you lose your AirPods?](https://alexyancey.com/lost-airpods/)

- A friend found AirPods and used the serial number and partial phone number to identify the owner.
- By narrowing down potential phone numbers using area codes, wireless carriers, and iMessage compatibility, the search was reduced to 84 numbers.
- A script was used to send bulk iMessages, successfully locating the owner and returning the AirPods within 10 messages.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41334207)

- Users shared various experiences of losing and finding their AirPods, highlighting their durability and resilience in different conditions, such as rain, snow, and even washing machines.
- Discussions also covered common issues with AirPods, including battery drain and connectivity problems, with some attributing these to iOS bugs and others suggesting hardware defects.
- The thread reflects a mix of user satisfaction and frustration, with some praising Apple's support and others criticizing the handling of defects and bugs.

## [We have reached OpenBSD of Theseus](https://marc.info/?l=openbsd-cvs&m=172443408727088&w=2)

- Theo de Raadt announced modifications to the OpenBSD source, specifically in the games/quiz directory, replacing the Greek quiz with one about ship parts.
- This marks the replacement of the last unmodified original file from the 1995 OpenBSD import, symbolizing the "OpenBSD of Theseus."
- Acknowledgments were given to mglocker and jmc for their assistance in this milestone update.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41332342)

- OpenBSD has replaced the last original file from its NetBSD fork, marking a significant milestone in its development.
- Discussions on marc.info reveal user preferences and challenges between using CVS (Concurrent Versions System) and Git for version control.
- The removal of a Greek quiz from OpenBSD's games, replaced by a ship parts quiz, has sparked debate on the relevance and accessibility of such content.

## [Reddit banned me for developing Geddit](https://www.buzl.uk/2024/08/24/reddit.html)

- In August 2024, the developer of Geddit, a non-commercial, open-source Reddit client, was permanently banned from Reddit.
- The issue began in June 2023 when Reddit introduced new API pricing, charging $12,000 per 50 million requests, which threatened non-commercial apps like Geddit.
- Despite Geddit's popularity, with over 25k downloads, Reddit misunderstood its non-commercial nature, leading to the developer pausing the project and receiving no further communication from Reddit.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41336446)

- Reddit banned a user for developing Geddit, a third-party app, highlighting tensions between Reddit and independent developers.
- Many users believe Reddit has declined due to poor management and an increase in low-quality content, leading them to seek alternatives like Lemmy or RSS feeds.
- Despite its issues, Reddit remains a popular source for niche information, though users miss the more community-driven atmosphere of the past.

## [Hot Page – a graphical site builder](https://hot.page/)

- Hot Page is a drag-and-drop code editor that allows users to build websites using real HTML, CSS, and JavaScript without templates.
- Users can create a free site, use their own domain, and download and host their site anywhere, offering full control over the design.
- Hot Page supports any frontend framework or code snippet and serves pages from a global network for fast loading, making it a versatile tool for webmasters, designers, and enthusiasts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41337356)

- Hot Page is a graphical site builder created by Tim (WebBurnout) that offers a drag-and-drop editor while maintaining a connection to HTML and CSS.
- Planned enhancements include visual CSS editing, an inline CSS editor, a code snippets library, web components integration, and VS Code language servers.
- The project has received positive feedback from the Hacker News community, with users praising its nostalgic design and documentation; Tim is open to feedback, particularly on marketing strategies.

## [BMW Overtakes Tesla in European EV Sales for First Time](https://electriccarsreport.com/2024/08/bmw-overtakes-tesla-in-european-ev-sales-for-first-time/)

- Car demand in Europe increased by 2% in the last month, with 1.03 million units registered, bringing the year-to-date total to nearly 7.9 million.
- SUVs reached a record 54% of all registrations, with 554,000 new units, marking a 6% rise from July 2023; Volkswagen Group led the SUV market.
- Electric vehicle registrations fell by 6%, with BMW leading the EV market, surpassing Tesla; the Dacia Sandero was the best-selling car in July.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41333082)

- BMW surpassed Tesla in European electric vehicle (EV) sales for the first time in July 2024, but this is a misleading headline as Tesla remains ahead year-to-date (YTD).
- The increase in BMW registrations was marginal, with only about 300 more cars registered in July, and this occurred during a period when Tesla had fewer cars available for sale due to their production and shipping schedule.
- The metric used, car registrations, may not perfectly reflect actual sales, as it can be influenced by various factors such as dealer inventory and timing of consumer purchases.

## [NASA announces Boeing Starliner crew will return on SpaceX Crew-9](https://twitter.com/NASA/status/1827393397939634503)

- NASA is providing live updates on the Boeing Space Crew Flight Test following the Test Flight Readiness Review.
- The updates will include the latest news on the Starliner spacecraft.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41339667)

- NASA announced that the Boeing Starliner crew will return on SpaceX Crew-9, indicating ongoing challenges in Boeing's spacecraft design and manufacturing.
- SpaceX, benefiting from substantial government funding, has emerged as a reliable alternative in space travel.
- This decision underscores broader concerns about the state of space exploration, the role of private companies, and the necessity for innovation and competition in the industry.

## [I lost my Google Play dev account](https://old.reddit.com/r/gamedev/comments/1ezirdx/how_i_lost_my_google_play_dev_account_forever/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41332537)

- A developer lost their Google Play account after their app was removed for "Malware or Deceptive Behavior," specifically due to a code function that kept the screen on without user consent.
- Despite appealing the decision, the developer's account was permanently closed, preventing any future app submissions and causing significant frustration.
- The incident highlights issues with automated decision-making and the lack of effective recourse for developers dealing with large tech platforms like Google.

## [Elon Musk was just forced to reveal who owns X. Here's the list](https://fortune.com/2024/08/22/elon-musk-x-twitter-owner-list/)

- Elon Musk disclosed the owners of X (formerly Twitter) due to a lawsuit by former employees, revealing notable investors like Bill Ackman, Sean "Diddy" Combs, Larry Ellison, and Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal.
- Fidelity has significant investments through nearly 30 entities, and other key investors include Oracle founder Larry Ellison and Jack Dorsey, who still holds shares despite his criticism of Musk.
- The disclosure, which also lists investment firms like Andreessen Horowitz and Sequoia, was mandated by a federal judge in California.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41333038)

- Elon Musk disclosed that X Corp, which succeeded Twitter, Inc., is wholly owned by X Holdings Corp, with no public corporation holding 10% or more of its stock.
- The ownership list includes notable entities and individuals such as Fidelity, Prince Alwaleed, Jack Dorsey, and Binance.
- The disclosure sparked discussions on the lack of transparency in private company ownership in the US and its potential influence on X Corp's operations.

## [JavaScript dates are about to be fixed](https://docs.timetime.in/blog/js-dates-finally-fixed)

- The ECMAScript Temporal proposal introduces `Temporal.ZonedDateTime`, a new API to handle dates with time zones in JavaScript, addressing long-standing issues with JS date handling.
- `Temporal.ZonedDateTime` ensures accurate date representation, accounting for time zones and daylight saving time (DST) changes, and supports various calendar systems.
- Key features include standardized date string serialization, accurate date comparisons, time zone transformations, and methods for basic arithmetic and computing differences between dates.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41339493)

- JavaScript's date handling is being enhanced with the new Temporal API to better manage time zones and date-time operations.
- The Temporal API aims to provide more reliable and consistent date handling, addressing current limitations and inconsistencies.
- Adoption and compatibility with existing systems pose challenges, but the API is considered a significant improvement for JavaScript developers.

## [You are not dumb, you just lack the prerequisites](https://lelouch.dev/blog/you-are-probably-not-dumb/)

- The author initially believed they were "dumb" at math due to struggles in understanding, which persisted for years.
- After 150 days of dedicated learning, they realized the issue was missing foundational knowledge, not a lack of ability.
- By revisiting and mastering basic concepts, the author is gradually improving their math skills, highlighting the importance of building a strong foundation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41338354)

- The article discusses the importance of having the necessary prerequisites for learning complex subjects, emphasizing that lacking these does not equate to being unintelligent.
- Many individuals, especially those considered "gifted," struggle when they encounter subjects that require more effort and discipline than they are used to, highlighting the need for a strong work ethic.
- The conversation touches on the broader issue of educational systems and how they often fail to properly support and challenge gifted students, leading to lost potential and frustration.

## [Japan on edge of EUV lithography chip-making revolution](https://asiatimes.com/2024/08/japan-on-edge-of-euv-lithography-chip-making-revolution/)

- The Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology (OIST) has developed new EUV lithography equipment that could significantly reduce the cost of producing 7nm and smaller semiconductors, challenging ASML's monopoly.
- The new equipment simplifies the optical system, reducing power consumption by a factor of ten and using only four mirrors instead of ten, enhancing energy efficiency.
- OIST plans to demonstrate the technology with a half-scale model by 2026, potentially boosting Japan's position in the semiconductor industry amidst US sanctions on EUV equipment sales to China.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41336690)

- Japan, with Canon and Nikon, is exploring alternatives to EUV lithography, such as nanoimprint lithography, for chip-making.
- Chinese universities and companies are developing particle accelerator-based EUV sources, aiming to commercialize these technologies within 5-10 years.
- The race against ASML's advancements is critical, as it influences global chip manufacturing and geopolitical strategies.

## [Tesla has taken down 2016 release noting full self driving hardware capability](https://twitter.com/AdrianSumBond/status/1827105729859473773)

- Tesla has removed their 2016 statement that all their cars have full self-driving hardware, redirecting the page to their blog.
- The original 2016 release can now only be accessed through the Wayback Machine, an internet archive service.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41335008)

- Tesla has removed its 2016 announcement about full self-driving (FSD) hardware capability, leading to mixed user reactions.
- Users report both improvements and persistent issues like phantom braking and the absence of LIDAR, causing frustration over misleading claims and hardware limitations.
- Broader discussions include disillusionment with Elon Musk's political actions, Tesla's direction, and the implications of self-driving technology in the competitive landscape.

## [My IRC client runs on Kubernetes](https://xeiaso.net/blog/2024/k8s-irc-client/)

- The author moved their IRC client to a virtual machine (VM) on Kubernetes to ensure redundancy and easy access to extensive IRC logs and configurations.
- Kubernetes was chosen for its ability to detect node failures and reschedule jobs, utilizing Kubevirt and Longhorn for VM management and data backup.
- The migration involved creating three Kubernetes objects: a Kubevirt DataVolume, a Kubevirt VirtualMachine, and a Kubernetes Service, resulting in efficient operation and automatic nightly backups.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41332427)

- The post discusses the use of Kubernetes (K8s) for running an IRC client, highlighting the benefits of using a standardized approach for infrastructure management.
- Kubernetes offers a unified way to manage various components like containers, volumes, and load balancers, making it easier to maintain and scale applications.
- The conversation includes debates on the complexity of Kubernetes, with some arguing it simplifies infrastructure management while others point out the potential for increased complexity and maintenance overhead.

## [They don't make 'em like that any more: Borland Turbo Pascal 7](https://kevinboone.me/tpwin.html)

- Borland Turbo Pascal 7 (TP 7) was a groundbreaking programming tool, introducing integrated source-level debugging and object-oriented programming concepts through the Object Windows Library (OWL).
- TP 7 was affordable, powerful, and efficient, making it popular among hobbyists and professionals for developing substantial applications on Windows 3.1.
- Despite its decline due to competition from C and Microsoft's tools, Turbo Pascal significantly contributed to the adoption of Microsoft Windows on desktop PCs and remains a notable part of programming history.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41337413)

- Borland Turbo Pascal 7 is nostalgically remembered for its advanced Integrated Development Environment (IDE) features, such as dual monitors, live debugging, and context-sensitive help.
- The discussion highlights a concern that modern developers rely heavily on AI tools, potentially diminishing their fundamental coding skills and understanding of underlying systems.
- Turbo Pascal's legacy continues through modern tools like Delphi, Free Pascal, and Lazarus, though some argue that these tools face challenges like poor documentation and brain drain.

## [How people with disabilities use the web](https://www.w3.org/WAI/people-use-web/)

- The resource explains how individuals with disabilities, including age-related impairments, use the web, aiming to help developers, designers, and content creators understand the importance of accessible digital products.
- It includes sections on user experiences (personas), accessibility barriers, and tools and techniques used by disabled individuals to interact with digital technology.
- Related resources from the W3C Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) include accessibility principles and videos showcasing essential accessibility features.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41333064)

- People with disabilities encounter major obstacles online, such as a deaf person being unable to complete a bank's video verification due to the absence of written instructions and alternative support.
- Accessibility challenges also exist in hardware, with costly devices like refreshable braille keyboards; solutions include AI transcription for videos and improved tab navigation.
- Open-source projects and hardware solutions like "hable one" and "eyegaze" are being explored, and upcoming laws may mandate better accessibility in web design.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Did you lose your AirPods?" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Did%20you%20lose%20your%20AirPods%3F&subheading=Saturday%2C%20August%2024%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
