---
slug: '/2024/08/26'
---

# 2024-08-26

## [Is Telegram really an encrypted messaging app?](https://blog.cryptographyengineering.com/2024/08/25/telegram-is-not-really-an-encrypted-messaging-app/)

- Telegram’s CEO Pavel Durov was recently arrested by French authorities for insufficient content moderation, highlighting concerns about the platform's security practices.
- Telegram is often labeled as an “encrypted messaging app,” but it does not offer default end-to-end encryption, requiring users to manually activate “Secret Chats” for private conversations, which is not available for group chats.
- Despite its growth, Telegram has not improved its encryption usability, and its marketing as a secure messenger is misleading, posing risks to users who believe their conversations are private.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41350530)

- The discussion questions whether Telegram is truly an encrypted messaging app, focusing on its end-to-end encryption (E2EE) capabilities.
- The "mud puddle test" is mentioned, suggesting that if you can recover old messages on a new device, law enforcement might also access them, indicating potential security flaws.
- Telegram's privacy policies and its ability to comply with law enforcement requests are debated, with some arguing it is a trust-based app rather than a cryptographically secure one.

## [Australian employees now have the right to ignore work emails, calls after hours](https://www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/australian-employees-now-have-right-ignore-work-emails-calls-after-hours-2024-08-25/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41352681)

- Australian employees now have the legal right to ignore work emails and calls after hours, aiming to protect them from pressure to respond outside working hours.
- The law provides a legal basis for employees to refuse after-hours communication without fear of repercussions, promoting better work-life balance.
- This change is viewed as a step towards preventing employee exploitation and ensuring healthier work environments.

## [Removing stuff is never obvious yet often better](https://www.gkogan.co/removing-stuff/)

- Greg Kogan from Pinecone shared a story where a usage-based pricing calculator on their website deterred potential users due to confusing and exaggerated cost estimates.
- After numerous failed attempts to fix the calculator, an A/B test showed that removing it increased sign-ups by 16% and inquiries by 90%, with no rise in support tickets.
- This case highlights the value of simplifying by removing non-essential elements, demonstrating that simplification can lead to better engagement, more reliable systems, and faster growth.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41353328)

- Removing complex features, like a confusing pricing calculator, can lead to increased user sign-ups and reduced support tickets.
- Balancing simplicity with transparency and usability is crucial, especially in pricing models, and A/B testing can help assess the impact of such changes.
- Simplifying systems and focusing on core functionalities can result in more efficient and user-friendly products.

## [Writing a Rust compiler in C](https://notgull.net/announcing-dozer/)

- John Nunley is developing a Rust compiler in pure C, named Dozer, to address the bootstrapping challenge of Rust's main compiler, rustc, which is written in Rust.
- The project aims to create a Rust compiler bootstrapped from C, starting with minimal tools like TinyCC, and progressing to compile essential components like libc, libcore, and eventually rustc's Cranelift backend.
- Nunley has completed the lexer and part of the parser, with basic typechecking and code generation, and plans to create a cargo equivalent and establish a process to compile rustc and cargo.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41351446)

- A discussion on writing a Rust compiler in C, exploring the idea of creating a simplified 'proto-rust' in C to bootstrap a full Rust compiler.
- The conversation highlights existing efforts like mrustc, a non-Rust Rust compiler, which lacks a borrow checker but is used to compile rustc, the main Rust compiler.
- The debate includes various perspectives on the complexity and practicality of writing compilers in different languages, emphasizing the trade-offs between simplicity and feature completeness.

## [Fixing a bug in Google Chrome as a first-time contributor](https://cprimozic.net/blog/fixing-a-bug-in-google-chrome/)

- A bug in Chromium/Google Chrome Devtools, which ignored network requests made by worklets and the "Disable Cache" option, was fixed after persisting for years due to its niche impact.
- The fix involved creating an InspectorNetworkAgent for worklet targets, navigating Chromium's extensive codebase, and undergoing a thorough testing and code review process using Chromium's Gerrit system.
- The fix was quickly integrated into Chrome Canary and will be included in Chrome 130, marking the contributor's first significant achievement in a large-scale open-source project.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41355303)

- A first-time contributor successfully fixed a bug in Google Chrome, highlighting the challenges and learning experiences involved in working with the Chromium codebase.
- The post discusses the complexities of navigating and building Chromium, including issues with IDEs (Integrated Development Environments) like VS Code and Sublime Text, and the need for powerful hardware.
- The conversation also touches on the difficulties of maintaining a Chromium fork, such as the hard-coded browser name and the significant resources required for ongoing maintenance and security updates.

## [TIL: Versions of UUID and when to use them](https://ntietz.com/blog/til-uses-for-the-different-uuid-versions/)

- UUIDs (Universally Unique Identifiers) come in 8 versions, each with specific use cases.
- Commonly used versions include UUID v4 for random IDs and UUID v7 for sortable IDs, such as database keys.
- Newer versions like UUID v5 and v8 allow inclusion of specific data, while older versions like v1 and v6 are generally replaced by v7.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41350225)

- The post discusses various versions of UUIDs (Universally Unique Identifiers) and their specific use cases, highlighting the often-overlooked UUID Version 2 (v2) and its details.
- A notable mention is UUID Version 7 (v7), which includes a timestamp, making it advantageous for operations requiring time-based sorting, such as metadata file location on AWS S3.
- The conversation also touches on the desire for shorter, more human-readable UUID alternatives, with suggestions like ULID (Universally Unique Lexicographically Sortable Identifier) and custom base64-encoded UUIDs.

## [Dokku: My favorite personal serverless platform](https://hamel.dev/blog/posts/dokku/)

- Dokku is an open-source Platform as a Service (PaaS) that allows self-hosting on a single server, similar to Heroku, but more cost-effective.
- Key features include ease of use, automatic SSL via Let’s Encrypt, basic authentication support, simple scaling, and flexibility for various applications.
- The post provides practical examples for deploying applications and static sites using Dokku, including Dockerfile setup, SSH access, and GitHub Actions integration.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41358020)

- Dokku is highlighted as a preferred self-hosted platform for its simplicity and minimal configuration, often compared to Heroku.
- Users discuss various benefits and drawbacks, including ease of HTTPS setup with Let's Encrypt, and the ability to use Docker/Compose for deployment.
- The post includes comparisons with other technologies like Kubernetes (K8s) and Docker Swarm, noting Dokku's suitability for smaller, single-server deployments.

## [Dutch DPA fines Uber €290M because of transfers of drivers’ data to the US](https://www.autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl/en/current/dutch-dpa-imposes-a-fine-of-290-million-euro-on-uber-because-of-transfers-of-drivers-data-to-the-us)

- The Dutch Data Protection Authority (DPA) fined Uber 290 million euros for transferring European taxi drivers' data to the US without adequate safeguards, violating GDPR.
- The data transferred included sensitive information such as account details, location data, and criminal and medical records, without proper protection.
- This issue arose after the invalidation of the EU-US Privacy Shield in 2020 and Uber's failure to use Standard Contractual Clauses from August 2021; Uber plans to object to the fine.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41355021)

- The Dutch Data Protection Authority (DPA) has fined Uber €290 million for transferring drivers' data to the US, following complaints from French drivers.
- This incident highlights the complexities and challenges of data privacy laws, particularly the stricter regulations enforced by the EU compared to the US.
- The case emphasizes the need for stronger data protection laws in the US to prevent global third-party access to personal data.

## [NSA releases 1982 Grace Hopper lecture](https://www.nsa.gov/helpful-links/nsa-foia/declassification-transparency-initiatives/historical-releases/view/article/3880193/capt-grace-hopper-on-future-possibilities-data-hardware-software-and-people-1982/)

- The NSA released a digital copy of a 1982 lecture by Rear Adm. Grace Hopper on August 26, 2024, focusing on technological principles, leadership, and challenges in computer science and math.
- This release highlights Hopper's enduring legacy and her role in inspiring women in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics).

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41356528)

- The NSA has released a 1982 lecture by Grace Hopper, digitized from old AMPEX tapes with the help of the National Archives.
- The lecture covers topics such as cybersecurity, programming language standardization, and includes Hopper's famous nanosecond/microsecond dioramas.
- This release is considered a significant preservation of computing history, highlighting Hopper's contributions to the field.

## [Database “sharding” came from Ultima Online? (2009)](https://www.raphkoster.com/2009/01/08/database-sharding-came-from-uo/)

- The term "sharding" in database scalability, which involves running parallel databases, may have originated from the MMO Ultima Online (UO).
- In UO, "shards" referred to parallel servers, a concept developed to justify multiple copies of the game world, based on the game's lore.
- The connection between UO's "shards" and database "sharding" remains speculative but highlights an interesting crossover between gaming terminology and database technology.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41351219)

- The term "sharding" in database contexts may have originated from the game Ultima Online, which used "shards" to describe its multiple game worlds.
- Users discussed the influence of gaming on tech innovations, sharing anecdotes about early MMO (Massively Multiplayer Online) technologies and their impact on modern applications like Flickr and Slack.
- The conversation also covered the differences between sharding and horizontal partitioning, as well as the scalability benefits of sharding techniques.

## [Avante.nvim: Use Your Neovim Like Using Cursor AI IDE](https://github.com/yetone/avante.nvim)

- **avante.nvim** is a Neovim plugin that emulates the Cursor AI IDE, providing AI-driven code suggestions and easy application of these recommendations.
- The project is rapidly evolving, with new features being added frequently, making it a dynamic tool for developers.
- Key features include AI-powered code assistance and one-click application of AI suggestions, enhancing coding efficiency and productivity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41353835)

- Avante.nvim is a new Neovim plugin designed to offer AI-powered features similar to Cursor, a VSCode fork with embedded AI capabilities.
- The discussion highlights the growing interest in open-source alternatives to proprietary AI tools, with several users mentioning other plugins like dingllm.nvim and codecompanion.nvim.
- There is a debate on the effectiveness and integration of AI models in code editors, with some users emphasizing the need for better local language server protocol (LSP) integration to avoid generating invalid code.

## [Police Chief Says Cops Have a 5th Amendment Right to Leave Body Cameras Off](https://reason.com/2024/08/23/albuquerques-police-chief-thinks-cops-have-a-5th-amendment-right-to-leave-their-body-cameras-off/)

- Albuquerque Police Chief Harold Medina claimed 5th Amendment rights to justify not using his body camera during an internal investigation of a car crash he caused.
- Despite evidence of reckless driving, the Albuquerque Police Department's Fleet Crash Review Board deemed the crash "non-preventable," contradicting Internal Affairs' findings.
- Medina received reprimands for policy violations, while other officers in similar situations have faced termination, highlighting potential inconsistencies in disciplinary actions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41351993)

- A police chief claims officers can turn off body cameras under the 5th Amendment, which protects against self-incrimination, though courts typically limit this protection to testimonial evidence, not video recordings.
- Critics argue this stance undermines accountability, as body camera footage is not considered testimonial evidence.
- The debate underscores the ongoing tension between police accountability and individual rights.

## [Server Setup Basics for Self Hosting](https://becomesovran.com/blog/server-setup-basics.html)

- The guide provides essential steps for setting up a server for self-hosting, covering SSH login, user management, NGINX setup, log management, network security, and useful tools.
- Key security practices include using SSH keys, disabling root login, and configuring tools like UFW and Fail2Ban to enhance network safety.
- The guide also highlights the importance of log management, backups, and the use of quality-of-life tools to monitor and manage server resources effectively.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41353284)

- For beginners, using long-form flags in commands (e.g., `sudo usermod --append --groups sudo newuser`) is recommended for clarity over short-form flags.
- Tools like Caddy (replaces Nginx and Certbot), Tailscale (secures SSH access), and Userify (manages SSH keys) are recommended for simplifying server setup and management.
- Security tips include disabling password authentication, using `AllowGroups` for login control, and avoiding agent or X11 forwarding to prevent lateral movement by adversaries.

## [DOJ Files Antitrust Suit Against RealPage](https://www.propublica.org/article/realpage-lawsuit-doj-antitrustdoj-files-antitrust-suit-against-maker-of-rent-setting-algorithm)

- The Department of Justice (DOJ) and eight states have sued RealPage, a Texas tech company, for alleged illegal price-fixing to reduce competition among landlords and increase rents and profits.
- The lawsuit follows a ProPublica investigation and a nearly two-year DOJ investigation, revealing that RealPage's rent-setting software allows landlords to share confidential data and set similar rents, monopolizing the market.
- This case is part of the DOJ's broader antitrust enforcement efforts under the Biden administration and highlights the challenges of applying the Sherman Antitrust Act to modern technologies.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41357557)

- The Department of Justice (DOJ) has filed an antitrust lawsuit against RealPage, alleging the company's algorithmic pricing scheme harms renters.
- The lawsuit claims that RealPage's pricing algorithms artificially inflate rental prices, negatively impacting affordability for tenants.
- This legal action highlights growing concerns over the use of algorithms in setting prices and their potential anti-competitive effects in the housing market.

## [We found North Korean engineers in our application pile](https://www.cinder.co/blog-posts/north-korean-engineers-in-our-application-pile)

- Cinder, a US-based tech company, identified North Korean engineers in their applicant pool, suspected of funneling money back to the North Korean government.
- The co-founders, with CIA backgrounds, noticed unusual trends such as fabricated job histories, lack of online presence, and scripted interview responses.
- Cinder shared their findings with security partners and encourages other companies to seek tips and prevention strategies for similar issues.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41353079)

- North Korean engineers were found in the application pool for a job at Cinder.co, raising suspicions of employment fraud.
- Inconsistencies in work history, lack of LinkedIn profiles, and mismatched names were red flags during the interview process.
- The author doubts the applicants were genuinely North Korean, suggesting that employment fraud is a broader issue not confined to any single nationality.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Is Telegram really an encrypted messaging app?" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Is%20Telegram%20really%20an%20encrypted%20messaging%20app%3F&subheading=Monday%2C%20August%2026%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
