---
slug: '/2024/08/29'
---

# 2024-08-29

## [Air Con: $1697 for an on/off switch](https://blog.hopefullyuseful.com/blog/advantage-air-ezone-tablet-diy-repair/)

- The author faced a failed tablet in their air conditioning control system, which was six months past warranty, and was advised to replace the entire control system for $1697.
- Instead of paying for a full system replacement, the author successfully used an old Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 and modified the software to bypass device checks, saving money.
- This DIY solution highlights the potential for significant cost savings and the need for more flexible software options from manufacturers to accommodate older devices.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41386319)

- A user shared a workaround for a costly air conditioning control system issue, involving RS422 communication and an AES key, sparking significant community interest.
- The discussion includes technical details on replicating the interface using an ESP32, rooting tablets, and using converters, highlighting DIY solutions and reverse engineering efforts.
- The post underscores frustrations with proprietary systems and planned obsolescence, resonating with tech-savvy individuals seeking more control over their devices.

## [OpenAI is good at unminifying code](https://glama.ai/blog/2024-08-29-reverse-engineering-minified-code-using-openai)

- OpenAI's ChatGPT demonstrated its capability to unminify and explain complex JavaScript code, specifically for generating dynamic ASCII art in a React application.
- The AI provided a clear breakdown of the code's key components, including character set selection, dynamic character selection function, and a React component for displaying the content.
- The code was successfully converted to TypeScript, making it more readable and maintainable, showcasing the practical utility of AI in code comprehension and transformation tasks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41389185)

- OpenAI's tool HumanifyJS uses Large Language Models (LLMs) to unminify code, ensuring it remains functional and readable by renaming variables contextually.
- Users are considering additional features like renaming from scratch and handling large files, indicating ongoing development and interest.
- The broader implications of LLMs in code transformation, such as decompiling and refactoring, are discussed, emphasizing their increasing utility in software development.

## [Low Cost Mini PCs](https://lowcostminipcs.com/)

- The author used the eBay API to find affordable mini PCs for a home server and built a static site with Eleventy and a Python script for data parsing.
- The site includes filters for operating system, WiFi, and HDMI, with plans to add power usage, noise levels, and PCIe slots, though this data is challenging to obtain.
- The author seeks feedback and suggestions for improving the site.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41389931)

- Mini PCs, particularly used ones, are gaining attention for their value and versatility, often outperforming Raspberry Pi clones in cost and performance.
- Brands like Lenovo, Beelink, and Minisforum are highlighted for their affordability and reliability, with users sharing positive experiences and specific use cases such as home servers and HTPCs (Home Theater PCs).
- The discussion includes recommendations for various models, tips on configurations, and the importance of features like power consumption, noise levels, and expandability, making it a valuable resource for those looking to invest in mini PCs.

## [Bypassing airport security via SQL injection](https://ian.sh/tsa)

- Researchers discovered a vulnerability in FlyCASS.com, a system used by smaller airlines for pilot verification, which allowed unauthorized access to TSA's Known Crewmember (KCM) and Cockpit Access Security System (CASS).
- The vulnerability was disclosed to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), leading to the disconnection of FlyCASS from KCM/CASS, but the TSA issued incorrect statements about the issue and did not respond to follow-up corrections.
- The timeline of events includes initial disclosure on April 23, 2024, and subsequent actions, highlighting the importance of timely and accurate communication in cybersecurity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41392128)

- A security researcher discovered that the TSA's FlyCASS system is vulnerable to SQL injection, a basic web programming error that allows unauthorized access to the system.
- The vulnerability highlights significant security lapses, as FlyCASS, a critical system for airport security, appears to be managed by a single individual and lacks proper security audits.
- The incident has sparked discussions about the need for better security practices and oversight in government systems, emphasizing the importance of rigorous security audits and shared authentication services.

## [UK rail minister got engineer sacked for raising safety concerns](https://www.politico.eu/article/uk-rail-minister-peter-hendy-fired-gareth-dennis-engineer-safety-concerns-trains-london-euston-station/)

- UK rail minister Peter Hendy influenced the dismissal of engineer Gareth Dennis for raising safety concerns about overcrowding at London’s Euston station.
- Hendy threatened to withhold public contracts from Dennis's employer, SYSTRA, and urged disciplinary action, leading to Dennis's dismissal after he refused a financial settlement with a confidentiality clause.
- Dennis's warnings to the media about safety risks were in line with concerns from the official rail regulator, despite Network Rail addressing these concerns.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41388888)

- UK rail minister allegedly got an engineer, Gareth Dennis, fired for raising safety concerns, despite his criticisms being relatively mild.
- The UK rail network is known for extensive safety measures, including numerous signs and announcements, which some find excessive and patronizing.
- The incident highlights ongoing issues with safety and management practices at major UK rail stations, particularly Euston, which has been criticized for overcrowding and last-minute platform announcements.

## [HDMI Forum rejects AMD's HDMI 2.1 open-source driver](https://www.tomshardware.com/pc-components/gpus/hdmi-forum-rejects-amds-hdmi-21-open-source-driver)

- AMD's open-source Linux graphics driver is blocked from adding HDMI 2.1+ support due to legal requirements from the HDMI Forum, affecting features like 4K@120Hz and 5K@240Hz for Radeon GPU users.
- The HDMI Forum rejected AMD's proposal, suggesting users switch to DisplayPort, as confirmed by AMD's Linux engineer Alex Deucher.
- The HDMI Forum's restrictions on public access to specifications since 2021 ensure quality but hinder open-source support, prompting AMD to consider alternative solutions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41386667)

- HDMI Forum has rejected AMD's open-source driver for HDMI 2.1, leading to debates about the decision's impact on HDMI quality and the potential benefits for DisplayPort.
- Critics claim the rejection is protectionist, but note that most users may not be affected as they do not require HDMI 2.1 or use Linux.
- The situation underscores frustrations with HDMI's dominance and raises discussions about DisplayPort and USB-C as potential alternatives.

## [Skip – Build native iOS and Android apps from a single Swift codebase](https://skip.tools/)

- Skip.tools, co-created by Marc, transpiles SwiftUI iOS apps into Kotlin Jetpack Compose apps, enabling the use of a single language for both iOS and Android.
- Unlike other cross-platform tools, Skip generates genuinely native apps for both platforms without embedding a separate engine, ensuring platform-native controls and features.
- After a year of development, Skip has released version 1.0, ready for production use, and includes support for popular frameworks like SQLite, Firebase, and Lottie.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41384144)

- Skip.tools has released version 1.0, enabling developers to build native iOS and Android apps from a single Swift codebase by transpiling SwiftUI into Kotlin Jetpack Compose.
- Unlike other cross-platform tools, Skip creates genuinely native applications without embedding a separate engine or runtime, allowing the use of native debugging tools.
- The release includes a Swift Package Manager plugin called "skipstone" and supports popular frameworks like SQLite, Firebase, and Lottie, with extensive documentation and open-source modules available on GitHub.

## [A post by Guido van Rossum removed for violating Python community guidelines](https://discuss.python.org/t/should-we-consider-ranked-choice-voting-for-sc-elections/61880)

- A proposal has been made to switch from simple approval voting to ranked choice voting for the Steering Council elections to better capture voter preferences and provide more meaningful feedback to candidates.
- The current voting method, PEP-13, has limitations such as no preference expression, encouragement of strategic voting, and limited feedback for candidates.
- Ranked choice voting is proposed to offer better preference capture, reduce strategic voting, and provide nuanced feedback, with implementation managed by the PSF and community feedback being sought before any changes.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41385546)

- A post by Guido van Rossum was removed for violating Python community guidelines, mentioning advice from a banned expert.
- The removal has led to discussions about the suspension of core developer Tim Peters and the governance of the Python community, including the role of the Steering Council.
- The incident has sparked a debate on censorship and the enforcement of community guidelines within the Python community.

## [Twenty Years of Valgrind (2022)](https://nnethercote.github.io/2022/07/27/twenty-years-of-valgrind.html)

- Valgrind, an instrumentation framework for dynamic analysis tools, celebrated its 20th anniversary since its initial release in July 2002.
- Created by Julian Seward, Valgrind was inspired by the commercial tool Purify and aimed to be an open-source solution for x86/Linux, detecting memory management and threading bugs.
- Over the years, Valgrind has evolved with contributions from the community, adding tools like Cachegrind, Helgrind, and Massif, and has become a standard for bug detection in C and C++ programs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41384118)

- Valgrind, a memory debugging tool, has been essential for C programmers for 20 years, known for detecting memory leaks and performance issues despite slowing down performance.
- Alternatives like Clang's address sanitizer and built-in IDE tools are faster but may not catch all issues, making Valgrind's ease of use without recompilation valuable.
- Despite the rise of managed memory languages and large memory capacities, Valgrind remains crucial for long-running applications and precise memory management.

## [Companies Lobby Against Giving the Military the Right to Repair](https://www.404media.co/appliance-and-tractor-companies-lobby-against-giving-the-military-the-right-to-repair/)

- Lobbying groups from various device manufacturing sectors are opposing legislation that would facilitate the U.S. military's ability to repair their equipment, aiming to retain lucrative service contracts and prevent repair monopolies.
- Sen. Elizabeth Warren and other lawmakers introduced Section 828 of the Defense Reauthorization Act to mandate contractors provide reasonable access to repair materials, citing high costs and delays due to proprietary data restrictions.
- Opposition from manufacturers, including those unrelated to military equipment, suggests broader concerns about a national right to repair law, prioritizing service revenue over military safety.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41383126)

- Companies are lobbying against granting the military the right to repair their equipment, citing potential dangers.
- Critics argue that the inability to repair devices in the field could be life-threatening, referencing historical examples like the Apollo 13 mission.
- The debate highlights broader issues such as the right to repair, corporate greed, and the influence of the military-industrial complex.

## [Homemade Automated Solar Concentrator](https://github.com/remipch/solar_concentrator)

- A developer has open-sourced an automated solar concentrator project after quitting their job two years ago to focus on it.
- The project is still in development, with many potential improvements and applications in environmental and economic sectors.
- The developer is seeking feedback and questions from the community to further refine and enhance the technology.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41389176)

- The author open-sourced an automated solar concentrator project, seeking feedback and collaboration from the community.
- The discussion included technical insights on nonimaging optics, closed-loop control, and various methods to improve tracking precision and mirror adjustments.
- Users shared related projects and debated the efficiency and durability of concentrated solar power versus photovoltaic panels, highlighting the potential for diverse applications like cooking, heating, and 3D printing.

## [New 2GB Raspberry Pi 5 has 33% smaller die, 30% idle power savings](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/blog/2024/new-2gb-pi-5-has-33-smaller-die-30-idle-power-savings)

- On August 29, 2024, Raspberry Pi launched the 2GB Pi 5 for $50, featuring a new D0 stepping of the BCM2712 chip, which is simpler and cheaper to produce.
- The D0 stepping removes unused functionalities, making the chip 32.5% smaller and more efficient, with lower idle power consumption and slightly better thermals.
- Despite the 2GB model's limited RAM affecting performance in memory-intensive tasks, the 4GB Pi 5 is recommended for most users due to its balance of cost and functionality.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41392142)

- The new 2GB Raspberry Pi 5 boasts a 33% smaller die and 30% idle power savings, making it more efficient for low-power applications.
- While Raspberry Pis are ideal for hybrid IoT applications due to GPIO (General-Purpose Input/Output) and SPI (Serial Peripheral Interface) exposure, older PCs like Lenovo Thinkcentres may offer better performance for intensive tasks.
- The debate on environmental impact and power consumption continues, with some advocating for repurposing old laptops as a more eco-friendly alternative to buying new hardware.

## [Farewell Pandas, and thanks for all the fish](https://ibis-project.org/posts/farewell-pandas/)

- The pandas and dask backends are being deprecated and will be removed in version 10.0 of Ibis.
- DuckDB will become the default backend due to its superior performance, ease of installation, local operation, speed, and compatibility with the Python ecosystem.
- This change aims to resolve issues such as pandas' eager execution model, NaN vs NULL handling, and user confusion about performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41389806)

- Ibis is gaining popularity as a replacement for Pandas in data projects, praised for its fluid syntax, portable code snippets, and fast DuckDB backend.
- The community around Ibis is active and supportive, making it an attractive option for new users despite its lower recognition compared to Polars.
- The discussion highlights the limitations of Pandas, such as handling missing data, and mentions that Pandas now has optional support for PyArrow-backed dataframes, addressing some of these issues.

## [Threads Enables Fediverse Replies](https://blog.karliner.net/posts/threads-enables-fediverse-replies/)

- Adam Mosseri, Head of Instagram, announced that Threads now allows users to reply to and like posts from Fediverse/Mastodon accounts, marking a significant step in integrating Threads into the Fediverse.
- This move indicates Meta's shift towards an open systems approach, possibly to address regulatory pressures, and has sparked curiosity about the Fediverse.
- Tumblr's announcement to run on WordPress, which supports Fediverse plugins, means it will join the Fediverse, potentially revitalizing the platform and highlighting the benefits of open social media.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41390219)

- Threads now supports Fediverse replies, leading to discussions about Meta's true intentions behind this move.
- Critics argue that Meta's openness is a strategic effort to avoid regulatory scrutiny and weaken competitors, rather than an act of goodwill.
- While some see potential benefits in the integration, concerns remain about Meta's long-term goals and the effect on smaller platforms.

## [Docusaurus – Build optimized websites quickly, focus on your content](https://docusaurus.io/)

- Docusaurus helps build optimized websites quickly, focusing on content creation by converting MDX (Markdown with JSX) into static HTML files.
- Key features include localization, document versioning, and content search with Algolia, making it highly customizable and efficient for documentation.
- Praised for ease of use and flexibility, Docusaurus allows embedding React components in Markdown and supports a pluggable architecture.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41387922)

- Docusaurus is a popular tool for building optimized websites quickly, with a focus on content, but some default settings can negatively impact SEO.
- Users have shared experiences and solutions for SEO issues, such as using noindex tags and sitemap cleanup to avoid non-helpful pages.
- Docusaurus is praised for its flexibility, responsive community, and features like React, Markdown, and TypeScript support, making it suitable for both front-end and non-front-end developers.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Air Con: $1697 for an on/off switch" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Air%20Con%3A%20%241697%20for%20an%20on%2Foff%20switch&subheading=Thursday%2C%20August%2029%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
