---
slug: '/2024/08/31'
---

# 2024-08-31

## [Is my vision that bad? No, it's just a bug in Apple's Calculator](https://martin.wojtczyk.de/2024/08/31/is-my-vision-that-bad-no-its-just-a-bug-in-apples-calculator/)

- A bug in Apple's Calculator app on Mac causes digits in the binary display to appear off by one pixel, creating a wobbly effect.
- The issue seems to stem from the app being open for many days, potentially leading to a rounding error in the UI coordinate system.
- The author shares the bug online due to the lack of a feedback option from Apple, reassuring that the visual distortion is not a vision problem.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41406550)

- Apple's Calculator app has a bug where quick button presses fail to register, causing user frustration and questioning Apple's focus on user interaction.
- Users criticize Apple's UI design, citing issues like the iPhone 12 Mini's slow animations and CarPlay's poor design, which covers the map when answering calls.
- Despite these issues, Apple's ecosystem and services maintain user loyalty, though the lack of a public bug tracker and slow feedback response remain concerns.

## [Crows are even smarter than we thought](https://nautil.us/crows-are-even-smarter-than-we-thought-820066/)

- Nautilus Magazine covers a wide range of topics, including anthropology, astronomy, technology, and psychology, offering diverse content for readers interested in science and culture.
- Featured articles explore intriguing subjects such as AI intelligence compared to a 5-year-old, the healing power of trees, and the intelligence of crows, highlighting the magazine's commitment to thought-provoking and cutting-edge research.
- Nautilus members benefit from an ad-free experience and unlimited access to articles for a subscription fee, enhancing the reading experience for dedicated followers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41405195)

- A user shared a story highlighting crows' intelligence and social behavior, where a crow's injury led to a coordinated response from other crows.
- A study mentioned in the article shows that Hooded crows can manufacture tools, similar to New Caledonian crows, indicating widespread intelligence among crows.
- The discussion expanded to broader themes of animal intelligence and human perception, with users sharing experiences and insights about crows' social lives and communication abilities.

## [EU ChatControl is back on the agenda](https://digitalcourage.social/@echo_pbreyer/113055345076289453)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41407562)

- EU ChatControl is being reconsidered, igniting debates about monitoring politicians' communications to prevent misuse versus ensuring government transparency.
- Critics worry that these measures could lead to a surveillance state, infringing on privacy rights and impacting civil liberties.
- The discussion underscores the ongoing tension between security and privacy in the digital age.

## [This month in Servo: tabbed browsing, Windows buffs, devtools, and more](https://servo.org/blog/2024/08/31/this-month-in-servo/)

- Servo's latest nightly builds now enable Flexbox and WebXR by default, introducing several new features and upgrades.
- Key updates include support for HTMLDialogElement show(), WAV audio playback, and the crypto.randomUUID() API, among others.
- Significant improvements in performance and reliability, including a redesigned toolbar, tabbed browsing, and enhanced Windows performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41406799)

- Servo, a web browser engine project, has introduced new features like tabbed browsing and RTL (Right-to-Left) support, sparking renewed interest.
- Despite its potential, Servo struggles with funding, primarily relying on individual donations rather than large organizational support.
- The Linux Foundation has taken over the project from Mozilla, indicating continued development and potential growth.

## [Researchers find Alzheimer's-like brain changes in long Covid patients](https://uknow.uky.edu/research/uk-researchers-find-alzheimer-s-brain-changes-long-covid-patients)

- UK researchers at the University of Kentucky’s Sanders-Brown Center on Aging found cognitive impairments in long COVID patients similar to those in Alzheimer’s disease.
- The study, published in Alzheimer’s & Dementia, suggests shared brain disorder mechanisms, potentially opening new research and treatment avenues.
- The findings advocate for routine EEG exams to detect early brain changes in COVID-19 survivors, aiding early intervention and treatment.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41404748)

- Researchers have identified Alzheimer's-like brain changes in long Covid patients, with many reporting severe cognitive issues such as brain fog and memory problems.
- Patients also experience cardiovascular and respiratory symptoms, but often feel misunderstood and are misdiagnosed with conditions like depression.
- The medical community is being urged to increase awareness and research into long Covid to improve understanding and treatment of these symptoms.

## [Rediscovering the Small Web (2020)](https://neustadt.fr/essays/the-small-web/)

- The post contrasts the commercial web, optimized for engagement and conversion, with the "small web," a creative space made by individuals sharing their interests and hobbies.
- It highlights the history of the early web, which was democratized by free web hosts like Geocities, and how modern platforms and search engines prioritize commercial interests.
- Projects like Wiby.me, Neocities.org, and Curlie are mentioned as efforts to keep the small web alive, encouraging readers to create their own websites using basic HTML and CSS.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41406453)

- The "Small Web" movement is gaining traction, with projects like Kagi Small Web indexing and prioritizing small, independent blogs in search results.
- The project recently celebrated its one thousandth commit, indicating active development and community engagement.
- The resurgence of interest in the "Small Web" highlights a growing dissatisfaction with the dominance of large, commercial websites and a desire to rediscover more personal, less commercialized web experiences.

## [Brazilian court orders suspension of X](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/article/2024/aug/30/elon-musk-x-could-face-ban-in-brazil-after-failure-to-appoint-legal-representative)

- The Brazilian Supreme Court has ordered the suspension of Elon Musk's social media platform, X, for not appointing a legal representative in Brazil.
- Justice Alexandre de Moraes mandated the "immediate, complete, and total suspension" of X's operations until compliance with court orders, payment of fines, and appointment of a legal representative.
- The decision includes a daily fine for using X via VPN, and the bank accounts of Musk’s Starlink have been blocked to enforce fines against X, although Starlink remains operational and is seeking to unfreeze its accounts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41404187)

- A Brazilian court has ordered the suspension of X (formerly Twitter) in Brazil, with a daily fine of $8,900 for users accessing it via VPN.
- The court also demanded Apple and Google remove VPN apps from their stores and delete them from users' phones, sparking significant debate.
- The ruling, due to X's refusal to block accounts accused of spreading disinformation, has raised concerns about freedom of speech and the judiciary's power in Brazil.

## [Orphaning bcachefs-tools in Debian](https://jonathancarter.org/2024/08/29/orphaning-bcachefs-tools-in-debian/)

- The author decided to orphan the bcachefs-tools package in Debian due to maintenance challenges, particularly with Rust dependencies and the upstream author's insistence on bundling dependencies.
- Bcachefs, an evolution of the bcache block cache system, offers features like built-in compression, encryption, checksumming, and RAID but lacks a dkms module, complicating its integration.
- The package is now available in Debian's experimental repository but has been removed from unstable and stable versions to avoid potential issues, highlighting concerns about its long-term supportability and stability.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41407768)

- Debian is orphaning bcachefs-tools due to dependency management issues and conflicts with the upstream developer, Kent Overstreet.
- This situation underscores the challenges of integrating fast-moving, dependency-heavy projects into stable distributions like Debian.
- The broader discussion involves managing dependencies in modern software ecosystems, particularly with languages like Rust that promote vendoring, balancing stability, security, and the need for up-to-date software.

## [To Nerves from Elixir](https://underjord.io/to-nerves-from-elixir.html)

- Underjord, a small team offering Elixir consulting, has a new member on the Nerves core team aiming to help integrate hardware with reliable, concurrent software.
- The post provides a detailed guide on getting started with Nerves, including installation steps for dependencies, setting up a Raspberry Pi, and configuring Wi-Fi.
- Nerves offers unique features like VintageNet for networking, NervesTime for time management, and A/B firmware partitions, with additional tools like NervesHub for firmware updates and NervesKey for hardware encryption.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41403971)

- Nerves boots with a minimal Linux and the OTP/BEAM VM, transforming Elixir into an embedded operating system.
- The GRiSP project allows the BEAM VM to boot directly on hardware, expanding its use in embedded systems.
- AtomVM is a mini version of the BEAM VM designed for microcontrollers, offering a solution for running Erlang and Elixir on devices like Arduino or Raspberry Pi Pico.

## [Expect – Linux tool for automating interactive programs](https://linux.die.net/man/1/expect)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41405364)

- Expect is a robust Linux tool for automating interactive programs, created by Don Libes in 1990, even before Linux existed.
- Users have successfully used Expect for automating tasks like hardware configurations, SSH logins, and serial-port communications.
- Despite its age, Expect remains relevant due to its versatility and reliability, with alternatives like pexpect for Python and sshpass also available.

## [Rust in Linux Revisited](https://drewdevault.com/2024/08/30/2024-08-30-Rust-in-Linux-revisited.html)

- The author revisits their previous skepticism about integrating Rust into the Linux kernel, now with a more compassionate perspective.
- They acknowledge the burnout experienced by developers in the Rust-for-Linux project and propose an alternative: creating a new Linux-compatible kernel from scratch using Rust.
- This new project could avoid the political challenges of the Linux community, attract contributors, and mentor new kernel developers, offering a potential solution to developer burnout.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41404733)

- Drew DeVault proposes that Rust-for-Linux developers should build a new Linux-compatible kernel from scratch rather than rewriting parts of the existing Linux kernel in Rust.
- He argues that the main issue lies in Linux's architecture, where drivers run with the rest of the kernel, and suggests a new microkernel like Helios, which allows drivers to run in user-space, as a better solution.
- This approach could circumvent the political challenges and burnout associated with integrating Rust into the existing Linux kernel, despite critics highlighting Rust's superior memory safety over C.

## [Harder Drive: hard drives we didn't want, or need [video] (2022)](http://tom7.org/harder/)

- The paper "Harder Drive: Hard drives we didn't want or need" was presented at SIGBOVIK 2022, a conference known for its humorous and satirical take on computer science.
- An app for exploring the IPv4 address space is available for 64-bit Windows machines with 32 GB RAM, accessible via a specific torrent until April 2022.
- Additional content, including related videos and ringtones, can be found on the author's YouTube channel and blog.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41409503)

- Tom7's video on "Harder Drive" explores unconventional methods of data storage, sparking renewed interest in his creative work.
- The concept involves partitioning secret data and sending it to non-existing email addresses to retrieve it later, reminiscent of older data storage techniques like delay-line memory.
- The discussion highlights Tom7's meticulous approach to typesetting and his engaging video presentations, drawing attention from both new and long-time followers.

## [Rust solves the problem of incomplete Kernel Linux API docs](https://vt.social/@lina/113056457969145576)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41409475)

- Rust improves Linux Kernel API documentation by using a strong type system, reducing ambiguity and enhancing code safety.
- The type system in Rust ensures thread safety and mutation safety, simplifying code review and lessening the need for extensive documentation.
- While not unique to the Linux kernel, Rust's approach benefits any codebase by allowing developers to focus more on business logic rather than maintaining invariants.

## [Cassette Tape Archive](http://www.tapedeck.org/index.php)

- Tapedeck.org is a project celebrating the nostalgia and history of analog audio tape cassettes, featuring a collection of various brands and designs from the 60s to the 90s.
- The Compact Cassette, introduced by Philips in 1963, gained significant popularity with the advent of the Sony Walkman in the 1980s and remains popular in some regions despite modern technologies.
- Users are encouraged to explore the collection, learn about tape history, and contribute by sending pictures of their tapes.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41405961)

- The post evokes nostalgia for cassette tapes, highlighting personal experiences and the culture of creating mix tapes and recording songs from the radio.
- There is a mention of a robust cassette hacking culture, including circuit bending walkmans and creating loops, with resources like courses and discussions provided.
- Users share memories of tape trading, the social aspects of organizing tape trees, and the unique sound qualities of different tapes.

## [Three questions to turn the table during technical interviews](https://bellmar.medium.com/three-critical-questions-to-turn-the-table-during-technical-interviews-dd1594c278b8)

- The moment when an interviewer asks, "Do you have any questions for me?" is crucial for candidates to gauge the work environment and company culture.
- Interviews should not only assess a candidate's skills but also convince the candidate why the organization is a good fit, especially important for those early in their careers.
- Preparing a standard set of questions to ask interviewers at each stage of the interview process can help candidates gather valuable insights.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41404117)

- Three key questions to ask during technical interviews include: handling new ideas from individual contributors (ICs), experiences with major migrations, and changes expected after six months of employment.
- These questions help assess company culture, project management practices, and the potential impact of the role.
- Asking about a typical day or week in the role can provide insights into the actual job versus the job description, emphasizing the importance of interviews as a mutual evaluation process.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Is my vision that bad? No, it's just a bug in Apple's Calculator" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Is%20my%20vision%20that%20bad%3F%20No%2C%20it's%20just%20a%20bug%20in%20Apple's%20Calculator&subheading=Saturday%2C%20August%2031%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
