---
slug: '/2024/01/07'
---

# 2024-01-07

## [FAA orders inspections of over 170 Boeing 737 Max 9s after midflight panel incident](https://www.cnbc.com/2024/01/06/boeing-737-max-9-grounding-after-alaska-airlines-door-blows-midflight.html)

- The FAA has mandated the grounding of over 170 Boeing 737 Max 9 aircraft for inspections after a panel detached from an Alaska Airlines flight during midflight.
- Alaska Airlines and United Airlines have grounded their entire fleets of Boeing 737 Max 9 planes as a precautionary measure.
- The incident is currently under investigation by the NTSB, and fortunately, no serious injuries were reported. The incident renews concerns about potential structural failures in the Boeing 737 Max, which has already faced intense scrutiny following two fatal crashes in 2019.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38893909)

- The discussion covers multiple topics related to aviation safety, including the grounding of Boeing 737 Max 9 planes and safety concerns with Alaska Airlines.
- It also highlights the need for stricter regulation in the aviation industry and criticizes Boeing for neglecting safety and necessary updates.
- The discussion extends beyond aviation to include debates about government-corporate relationships, military spending, company culture, and the decline of certain businesses.

## [IRS Trials Free Tax-Filing System, Faces Opposition and Divided Support](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/05/your-money/irs-tax-filing-free-online.html)

- The IRS is testing a free tax-filing system that enables residents of 12 states to directly submit federal tax returns online without any charge.
- This pilot program is designed for low- and moderate-income taxpayers with uncomplicated returns, aiming to simplify the filing procedure.
- Commercial tax-preparation companies are opposing this initiative, while Congress members from both parties have different opinions on its support. The IRS will release a public report on the trial before making a decision about expanding the direct filing system to a larger number of taxpayers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38892044)

- The US tax system is complex and inefficient, generating a discussion on the need for simplification and improvement.
- Debate focuses on government involvement in tax filing, the use of public domain source code, and comparison with other countries' tax systems.
- Analysis includes the efficiency of government services, budget allocation, and the role of private entities, along with perspectives on tax compliance, the IRS, data security, and taxpayer education.

## [Exploring In-Browser Code Playground: Codapi and the Power of Lightweight WASI Runtime](https://antonz.org/in-browser-code-playgrounds/)

- In-browser code playgrounds are being discussed, particularly in relation to the open source tool called Codapi.
- Language runtimes can be compiled into WebAssembly System Interface (WASI) binaries, allowing them to be run in the browser with a lightweight WASI runtime.
- The playground showcases interactive code snippets in Python, PHP, Ruby, Lua, JavaScript, Fetch, and SQLite, along with advanced features like templates and code cells.
- Instructions are provided on how to use the playgrounds, and the benefits of running code in the browser are highlighted.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38891177)

- The article explores different in-browser code playgrounds that enable users to write and execute code directly in their web browsers.
- Examples include a playground for the Scheme language and a Python playground with features geared towards programming education for beginners.
- The article highlights the difficulties of running code with extensive execution times or infinite loops within the browser and discusses the potential of web app playgrounds to showcase sandboxed products for demonstration purposes.

## [FAA grounds 171 Boeing 737 Max 9 jets after mid-air incident](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-67903655)

- The FAA has grounded 171 Boeing 737 Max 9 jets following an incident where part of one plane fell off during an Alaska Airlines flight.
- United Airlines has also conducted inspections on its planes in response to the incident.
- The inspections are anticipated to result in around 60 flight cancellations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38893811)

- The FAA has grounded 171 Boeing planes after a mid-air blowout incident, prioritizing passenger safety.
- Hacker News users on a thread highlighted the merging of comments and timing discrepancy in the BBC article, questioning the accuracy of the information provided.
- The grounding of the planes and the discussion on Hacker News highlights the importance of ongoing monitoring and safety measures in the aviation industry.

## [Karri Acknowledges and Appreciates Apology for Mistake Affecting Three Companies](https://twitter.com/henrysward/status/1743794996732735679)

- Karri acknowledged and appreciated the conversation, where a mistake made by the speaker impacted three companies.
- The speaker apologized for the mistake and expressed hope for forgiveness.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38897363)

- Carta, a financial technology company, is facing criticism and allegations related to employee treatment, customer service, privacy breaches, and potential unethical behavior.
- Alternative options to Carta are discussed, and the CEO's response is criticized.
- The discussion also focuses on debates about accountability, privacy expectations, legality, and morality of the company's actions, raising concerns about its credibility and transparency.

## [Introducing Swieros: A Versatile CPU Emulator, C Compiler, and OS](https://github.com/rswier/swieros)

- Swieros is a lightweight and fast Unix-like kernel, compiler, and userland platform that is based on xv6.
- It is designed to offer a fun and educational environment for research purposes.
- Swieros includes a virtual CPU with support for user/supervisor modes and virtual memory, as well as a fast compiler for on-the-fly compilation and execution.
- Other features of Swieros include network clients and servers, remote OpenGL, GUI applications, and more.
- It can be run on both Windows and Linux operating systems.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38890540)

- The summary discusses a project on GitHub that comprises a CPU emulator, C compiler, and operating system, which has garnered positive attention and admiration from users.
- Users highlight the size of the C compiler in comparison to the kernel and mention another noteworthy compiler called C4 that is worth exploring.
- Overall, the project is regarded as a passion project and a valuable educational tool for studying.

## [The Birth of Ultima: Pioneering CRPG and Tile Graphics](https://www.filfre.net/2012/02/ultima-part-1/)

- The article focuses on the release and importance of the first Ultima game in the CRPG genre, emphasizing its impact on the use of tile graphics.
- It delves into the early development of the Ultima series and includes perspectives from forum users and the cover artist of Ultima I.
- The article also discusses the display format of another game called Garriott.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38894397)

- The discussion revolves around various aspects of the game Ultima, including personal experiences, impact on players, comparisons to other RPG games, technical challenges, and opinions on its name and platform.
- Topics range from meeting the creator, reverse engineering the source code, cheats, and recommendations for further reading.
- The influence of Ultima and Dungeons & Dragons on the gaming industry is highlighted, along with differences between Western and Japanese RPGs. The use of indirection and efficient drawing techniques in video games, as well as the perception of Ultima as an RPG game and its suitability as a space shooter, are also discussed.

## [Breaking Habits: The Hopelessness of Willpower (2019)](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2019/10/28/can-brain-science-help-us-break-bad-habits)

- Habits have a significant impact on our behavior, challenging the idea that we have complete control over our actions.
- Small changes in our environment can be effective in breaking bad habits and promoting self-control.
- Companies play a role in shaping consumer habits, highlighting the need for understanding and analyzing habits to break them. The article provides personal advice and examples of breaking smartphone addiction.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38895342)

- The discussion covers various topics related to habit-breaking, including quitting smoking, weight loss, and overcoming addiction.
- Strategies such as changing environments, finding alternatives, and using willpower are discussed as means to break habits.
- The importance of understanding the role of environment and incentives in behavior is emphasized, along with the need for personal responsibility and making conscious choices.

## [The Pioneering Legacy of WDR Studio for Electronic Music in Cologne](https://artsandculture.google.com/story/sounds-of-cologne-wdr/gQWRzsVclcCYPA?hl=en)

- The WDR Studio for Electronic Music in Cologne was a groundbreaking institution for electronic music, offering composers access to advanced equipment and the opportunity to experiment with new sound creation techniques.
- Despite its limited technical capabilities and cramped conditions, the studio maintained its pioneering role in the field.
- The studio closed in 2001 after 50 years of operation, and attempts to establish a permanent home for it have been unsuccessful. The North Rhine-Westphalia corporation has an online exhibit honoring the Western Broadcasting Corporation and the history of electronic music.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38892685)

- The article examines the significance of the WDR Studio for Electronic Music in Cologne in pioneering experimental music and the challenges it faces due to reduced funding.
- It explores the impact of communism on culture, particularly in China, and how it affects the film industry.
- The article also delves into the ethical dilemmas and effectiveness of publicly-funded radio and TV, focusing on the German media landscape. It touches on concerns about extreme-right parties, propaganda, and media polarization. The involvement of various political groups in German media is discussed, including allegations of left-wing propaganda and fake news.

## [Hackers Target Package Managers with Coinmining Malware in Multi-Phase Attacks](https://socket.dev/blog/when-everything-becomes-too-much)

- Hackers are employing package managers as a means of distributing coinmining malware in multi-phase attacks.
- Three malicious PyPI packages have been discovered as a recent example of this tactic.
- This highlights the need for improved security measures and vigilant monitoring of package dependencies to prevent the spread of malware through trusted software repositories.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38894445)

- The discussion touches on several issues related to package management, dependencies, and the JavaScript ecosystem.
- Concerns include the proliferation of dependencies and a lack of awareness about their actual costs.
- Topics of debate include the need for a standardized and portable standard library in JavaScript, efficient key comparison and customizable functionality in programming languages, and the pros and cons of specialized libraries versus a comprehensive library.

## [The Modules and Files Structure of an API: Explored](https://vickiboykis.com/2024/01/05/retro-on-viberary/)

- The directory structure consists of multiple modules and files related to an API, divided into different directories.
- The "api" directory contains the main API file and other files related to routing and serving the API.
- Other directories include "conf" for managing configurations and connecting to Redis, "index" for indexing embeddings and related operations, "load" for load testing, "model" for generating and processing embeddings, "notebooks" for exploratory code and notebooks, "search" for search inference, and "training_data" for learned embeddings.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38896879)

- Building a semantic search engine presents challenges that users are discussing.
- Users are interested in developing a search query that better understands semantic searches.
- The potential of an intermediary model to translate queries is mentioned.
- Hypothetical Document Embeddings (HyDE) and Sentence Transformers are discussed as models and techniques for handling semantic search.
- Evaluation of embedding models and retrieval methods is mentioned.
- The state of the art in recommendation systems and the balance between user value and profitability is highlighted.
- Users have queries about incorporating rules into a semantic search engine.
- The effectiveness of ChatGPT in search scenarios is questioned.

## [Visualizing Swiss Trains in Real-Time](https://maps.vasile.ch/transit-sbb/)

- This is an animated map displaying the Swiss Federal Railways network based on official timetables.
- The map showcases different train operators and stations within the network.
- It provides a visual representation of the railways' extensive transportation system in Switzerland.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38891712)

- Switzerland has a comprehensive public transport system despite challenges posed by low population density and large geographical areas.
- The train system in Switzerland has undergone significant improvements, leading to the advocacy for the implementation of a high-speed rail line.
- Switzerland boasts punctual trains and offers live tracking of train locations, while also categorizing infrastructure projects for better planning.

## [Original developer of Age of Empires 2 discusses use of assembly code for improved performance](https://old.reddit.com/r/aoe2/comments/18ysttu/aoe_is_written_in_assembly_is_this_actually_true_o/)

- Users on Reddit are discussing the use of assembly language code in Age of Empires 2 and questioning its extent in the game.
- Some users explain that assembly code is used to improve sprite drawing speed in the game.
- The conversation explores the relevance and challenges of programming in assembly language in modern game development, including suggestions to update or open-source the old code. However, concerns about understanding and debugging the code are also raised.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38896896)

- The original developer of Age of Empires 2 emphasizes the use of assembly code in improving sprite drawing speed in the game's development.
- The developer highlights the benefits of face-to-face discussions with other programmers, including Michael Abrash.
- Advancements in C++ compilers since the 1990s are also mentioned in the discussion.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="FAA orders inspections of over 170 Boeing 737 Max 9s after midflight panel incident" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=FAA%20orders%20inspections%20of%20over%20170%20Boeing%20737%20Max%209s%20after%20midflight%20panel%20incident&subheading=Sunday%2C%20January%207%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
