---
slug: '/2024/01/10'
---

# 2024-01-10

## [Hacker Exposes Massive Data Breach in US Fast Food Chains' Hiring Services](https://mrbruh.com/chattr/)

- The author uncovered a security vulnerability in Chattr.ai, a company that offers AI hiring services to fast food chains and other employers in the US.
- By exploiting the vulnerability, the author gained unauthorized access to sensitive data such as personal information, passwords, branch locations, confidential messages, and shifts.
- The author also gained administrative access to Chattr's dashboard, providing them with greater control over the system.
- The vulnerability was discovered on January 6th and fixed on January 10th, but no response or acknowledgement was received from Chattr.ai.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38933999)

- The summary covers discussions on hacking, data breaches, responsible disclosure, information security, and the effectiveness of shaming.
- It also includes insights on bug bounties and compares Firebase and Postgres as database management options.
- The summary addresses concerns about the security of personal data, the need for accountability for security researchers, and criticisms of Firebase's complexity and limitations.

## [Check if your flight is on a Boeing 737 MAX: Verify your reservations](https://www.ismyplanea737max.com/)

- This tool allows users to check if a flight is a Boeing 737 MAX.
- It is recommended to double-check reservations for the latest information on the aircraft type.
- The tool provides valuable information for passengers concerned about flying on a Boeing 737 MAX.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38928951)

- The discussion focuses on safety concerns surrounding Boeing 737 MAX planes, examining previous incidents and potential risks.
- Participants debate the role of Boeing and airlines in ensuring safety and compare the safety records of Boeing and Airbus planes.
- Some express hesitance to fly on the 737 MAX and propose consumer action, while others highlight the overall safety of air travel. The importance of enhanced accountability, quality control, and industry oversight are emphasized.

## [Google Fixes Blank Homepage Issue on Firefox Mobile for Android](https://github.com/webcompat/web-bugs/issues/131916)

- Users accessing Google homepage using Firefox Mobile on Android reported a blank page issue.
- The problem was identified as server-side user agent (UA) sniffing.
- Google has prepared a patch and is implementing a fix, although the issue is considered resolved for most users.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38924300)

- Users are discussing technical issues they are facing with Google products, particularly when using Firefox.
- Some speculate that Google may intentionally undermine competitors like Firefox, while others believe it could be due to negligence or prioritizing Chrome.
- Alternatives like DuckDuckGo and Kagi are being mentioned, and the importance of bug tracking and user feedback is also discussed.

## [Turing Complete: A Game That Teaches Computer Science through Coding Puzzles](https://turingcomplete.game/)

- "Turing Complete" is a game that aims to educate players about computer science concepts like logic gates, components, architecture, and assembly.
- Players have the opportunity to construct their own computers and tackle programming challenges using binary codes and assembly instructions.
- The game provides an interactive and hands-on learning experience for individuals interested in understanding the fundamentals of computer science.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38925307)

- The summary discusses discussions on computer science games such as Turing Complete and Shenzhen I/O.
- Users share their experiences with the games, recommend similar options, and compare gameplay and features.
- Some users express concerns or dissatisfaction with certain aspects, while overall, the games are seen as educational and enjoyable.

## [Creator of Atuin Quits Job to Focus on Open Source Project Full Time](https://ellie.wtf/posts/i-quit-my-job-to-work-full-time-on-my-open-source-project)

- Atuin is a productivity tool that allows users to store and sync their shell history across devices.
- The creator has left their job to work on Atuin full time and plans to add new premium features and support business usage.
- Given the significant growth in user base and usage, the creator is focusing more time and attention on the development of Atuin and has set up GitHub sponsors to cover server costs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38935205)

- The discussion focuses on various aspects of open source projects, including monetization options, concerns about open core projects, and availability of grants.
- Users share and discuss different tools and methods for managing shell history, such as Atuin and DuckDB.
- The author shares their experience and monetization strategy for their tool, Atuin, and plans to add paid features to their website. Users express interest in Atuin and discuss its benefits and security concerns.

## [SEC's Twitter Account Hacked, No Approval for Bitcoin Spot ETFs](https://en.bitcoinsistemi.com/breaking-gary-gensler-says-secs-x-account-hacked-bitcoin-spot-etfs-not-yet-approved/)

- The official Twitter account of the SEC was hacked, and a fake post falsely announcing the approval of Bitcoin Spot ETFs was made.
- SEC chairman Gary Gensler confirmed that the post was unauthorized and clarified that Bitcoin Spot ETFs have not been officially approved.
- The SEC has removed the post and clarified that they have not approved the listing and trading of products on the spot Bitcoin exchange.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38932509)

- The SEC's X account has been compromised, raising concerns about the security of sensitive information.
- The approval for Bitcoin Spot ETFs is still pending, creating uncertainty in the cryptocurrency market.
- The hacking incident highlights the need for stronger security measures and oversight within the SEC.

## [Building the Future: WikiHouse Revolutionizes Sustainable Design](https://www.wikihouse.cc/)

- WikiHouse is a modular building system that enables easy design, manufacture, and assembly of high-performance buildings.
- The precision-manufactured components fit together perfectly, creating straight and accurate buildings.
- The lightweight and strong blocks are durable, highly insulated, and result in ultra-low-energy buildings.
- The system is carbon negative as wood captures and stores carbon from the atmosphere.
- WikiHouse aims to democratize sustainable building by providing open-source blueprints and allowing anyone with a CNC machine to become a fabricator.
- The project is maintained by Open Systems Lab, a non-profit company.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38932603)

- Wikihouse is an open-source project that focuses on sustainable and accessible housing, with a priority on sustainability, low energy use, and accessibility of design information.
- There are debates surrounding the limitations of the current approach and the need for standardization in construction, as well as the use of different materials and methods, and the cost-effectiveness of these options.
- The trend in Europe is moving towards pre-built modular homes, while the US has a high demand for reclaimed materials, but there are concerns about the durability and repair processes of pre-fab systems, as well as skepticism regarding the cost and advantages of using plywood.
- Some question the concept of open-source construction, arguing that other systems are more mature and easier to train for, and there is criticism of a modular building system's claims, specifically regarding the use of timber, simplicity of installation, and overall quality.
- Factors like longevity, adaptability, and beautiful designs are deemed important in sustainable housing, with discussions also including compressed earth brick technology, windstorm-resistant homes, and the potential for open building systems in multifamily housing.
- The blueprints of Wikihouse are open source, allowing unrestricted use and modification by individuals.

## [Creating an e-ink picture frame that syncs with iCloud photo albums](https://ben.page/eink)

- Ben Borgers wrote a blog post on reverse-engineering iCloud photo albums and rooting the Nook e-reader to make a dynamic e-ink picture frame.
- The picture frame automatically updates with pictures from a shared iCloud photo album.
- This DIY project allows users to repurpose their e-reader as a personalized photo frame.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38928277)

- Users discuss their experiences and frustrations with iCloud's syncing and downloading features for photo albums, especially on Windows machines.
- There is a demand for a simple, high-quality e-ink picture frame that can easily sync with iCloud and display albums.
- The conversation also covers alternative options for displaying and sharing photos, as well as the feasibility and market demand for a product that facilitates sharing pictures with grandparents. DIY projects, like customized wifi setups and solar-powered frames, are also discussed.

## [Apple to Introduce Vision Pro Technology in Retail Stores from February 2024](https://9to5mac.com/2024/01/09/five-different-app-stores/)

- Apple will begin showcasing its Vision Pro technology in retail stores starting on February 2, 2024.
- The Vision Pro technology is a new product from Apple that will be available for customers to experience in-store.
- This move highlights Apple's commitment to innovation and providing customers with cutting-edge technology.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38926476)

- Apple has clarified that it operates five different App Stores, but users argue that they still don't have enough choice as they can only access one store on their devices.
- Some MacBook users are facing difficulties in installing certain apps, and developers can prevent iOS apps from being installed on Apple Silicon Macs.
- The discontinuation of the $7 tablet version of Minecraft by Apple has raised concerns about user choice and the impact of Apple's control over its App Store.
- There is a debate on whether Apple's App Store should be treated as one store or multiple stores legally and whether it qualifies as a monopoly, sparking discussions on the need for antitrust action.
- The restrictions imposed by Apple on software installation and the potential benefits of opening the ecosystem to third-party app stores are also being discussed.
- The use and limitations of iMessage and WhatsApp are explored, along with debates on whether iMessage should be interoperable with other messaging platforms.
- The fairness and compatibility of messaging apps, as well as the EU's stance on messaging app monopolies, are also part of the conversation.
- Overall, the focus is on the significance of Apple's control over its App Store and the potential effects of EU regulation on Apple's devices.

## [The Global Rise of Teen Mental Illness: A Closer Look at Anglosphere Countries](https://www.afterbabel.com/p/international-mental-illness-part-one)

- Mental illness among teenagers in Anglosphere countries is on the rise, particularly impacting girls and the younger generation.
- Research by Zach Rausch shows significant increases in mental health issues, self-harm rates, and psychiatric hospitalizations in the USA, UK, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand.
- The article explores potential causes for this trend, including the influence of smartphones and social media, and suggests further research to understand similar trends in other developed nations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38935605)

- The causes of the teen mental illness epidemic are being explored, including the role of social media, cultural changes, family structure, economy, and uncertainty about the future.
- Negative impacts of media platforms and the addictive characteristics of social media are discussed, along with acknowledging the negative effects of capitalism.
- The impact of government regulation, wealth concentration, and the relationship between big government, big corporations, and big finance are examined. The negative effects of social media and constant online presence on mental health are also discussed, particularly for girls and women.

## [Gmail and Yahoo's 2024 Inbox Protections: What it Means for Email Programs](https://www.mailgun.com/blog/deliverability/gmail-and-yahoo-inbox-updates-2024/)

- Gmail and Yahoo plan to implement changes in 2024 to enhance user experience and reduce unwanted emails, requiring senders to authenticate their emails, offer easy unsubscribe options, and send relevant content.
- These changes will impact bulk senders, who need to ensure compliance with the new requirements.
- Sinch Mailgun provides tools to assist senders in preparing for the upcoming changes and improving email deliverability, including email authentication protocols and deliverability analysis.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38935048)

- Gmail and Yahoo are planning to implement inbox protections in 2024, which could have implications for email programs.
- Concerns are raised about the impact on transactional emails and the behavior of the unsubscribe button.
- The article covers various topics such as email classification, marking genuine invoices as spam, email verification, transactional emails, and challenges with IP warming.

## [Linux 6.8 Kernel Enhances TCP Performance by up to 40%](https://www.phoronix.com/news/Linux-6.8-Networking)

- The Linux 6.8 kernel introduces significant enhancements to core networking code, resulting in up to a 40% performance boost for multiple concurrent connections.
- These improvements involve optimizing networking structures to minimize cache line consumption, with contributions from Google, especially benefiting AMD EPYC servers.
- Linux 6.8 also adds support for new Ethernet and Bluetooth drivers, removes outdated WiFi drivers, updates network drivers, and provides firmware updates for NVIDIA Mellanox Ethernet switches. Ongoing work includes WiFi 7 and Extremely High Throughput (EHT) improvements.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38932398)

- Linux 6.8 network optimizations have been discovered to increase TCP performance by around 40%.
- This enhancement is especially advantageous for AMD EPYC processors, but has minimal effect on Intel processors.
- Additionally, the update signifies the discontinuation of support for Orinoco, a popular wireless network technology in early community networks.

## [Aim, Fire, Scan: Mastering Big Projects with Effective Planning and Execution](https://www.indiehackers.com/post/aim-fire-scan-the-80-20-of-executing-on-big-projects-571580cd0a)

- The author recounts their experience of using a commitment contract to write a novel and shares their iteration process called the plan, do, learn loop.
- Key concepts of effective planning and execution are explained using the acronyms AIM (Plan) and FIRE (Do).
- The importance of improvisation, resourcefulness, and focus in achieving successful outcomes is emphasized, along with the use of extra-mental resources and objective scoring to measure performance. The author also discusses their personal scoring system and the value of critiquing and adjusting one's performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38930928)

- The post offers strategies for effectively executing big projects, including setting standards, releasing incomplete work, getting started, engaging in fun activities, and building habits.
- Various topics related to project execution, such as going to the gym and interstitial journaling, are discussed in the post.
- The strategies and discussions aim to provide insights and guidance for successful project execution.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Hacker Exposes Massive Data Breach in US Fast Food Chains' Hiring Services" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Hacker%20Exposes%20Massive%20Data%20Breach%20in%20US%20Fast%20Food%20Chains'%20Hiring%20Services&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20January%2010%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
