---
slug: '/2024/01/16'
---

# 2024-01-16

## [Mastering Programming: The Importance of Time, Practice, and Hands-on Learning](https://norvig.com/21-days.html)

- The article critiques books that promise to teach programming quickly and highlights the necessity of years of practice to become an expert.
- It emphasizes the limitations of these books and stresses the significance of challenging oneself and receiving feedback.
- The summary underscores the importance of hands-on learning and references Malcolm Gladwell's concept of 10,000 hours of practice to achieve mastery. Genuine interest and dedication are essential in mastering programming.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39001755)

- This discussion covers various topics related to programming, including the impact of programming books on careers and the nostalgia for learning through technical books.
- The use of AI tools like ChatGPT and challenges in learning programming languages are also discussed.
- The discussion emphasizes the importance of continuous learning, practice, experimentation, and ongoing improvement in order to become a skilled programmer.

## [FSRS: A Next-Gen Spaced Repetition Algorithm for Enhanced Memory Retention](https://github.com/open-spaced-repetition/fsrs4anki/wiki/ABC-of-FSRS)

- FSRS is a modern spaced repetition algorithm that enhances memory retention and review scheduling compared to Anki's default algorithm.
- It calculates optimal review intervals based on the likelihood of successfully recalling a card, using the "Three Component Model of Memory" and analyzing a user's review history.
- FSRS allows users to select their preferred retention level, requires fewer reviews than Anki's default algorithm, and works effectively with delayed reviews. It also offers additional features through the FSRS4Anki Helper add-on.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39002138)

- Participants engage in a discussion about using spaced repetition algorithms, particularly with the Anki app, for learning diverse subjects like language and music.
- Strategies, experiences, and opinions are shared regarding the creation of effective flashcards and improving retention.
- The effectiveness of different algorithms, such as FSRS and Supermemo, is explored, with some participants emphasizing context and varied exposure, while others focus on card formatting and simplification for optimal retention.

## [Building High-speed 11Gbps USB4 Network for Under $50](https://fangpenlin.com/posts/2024/01/14/high-speed-usb4-mesh-network/)

- The author, a software engineer, believes it is crucial to have knowledge of hardware in addition to software.
- They migrated some services from AWS cloud to bare-metal servers to reduce costs.
- The author built a bare-metal Kubernetes cluster using a USB4 ethernet bridge, achieving a network speed of 11Gbps at a cost of $47.98 USD.
- They compare the cost and power consumption of retired 1U servers versus mini PCs, highlighting the advantages of mini PCs.
- NixOS was used for network configuration, and benchmark results were provided.
- The author speculates on the potential of high-speed USB/Thunderbolt-based networks in the future.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39003469)

- The discussion explores different networking options including USB, Firewire, Thunderbolt, Ethernet, and NVMe drives.
- Participants share their experiences and preferences, discussing factors such as speed, cost, power consumption, and compatibility.
- The conversation emphasizes the importance of considering individual needs and resources when selecting a networking solution.

## [SQLite 3.45: Enhancements and Bug Fixes for Improved Performance and Usability](https://www.sqlite.org/changes.html#version_3_45_0)

- The summary covers updates, bug fixes, and enhancements made to the SQLite database management system.
- Improvements were made to SQL and JSON functions, query planning, command-line interface, and error handling.
- Updates also address issues like memory leaks, bug fixes, and optimizations.
- New features include support for new syntax, compatibility with other databases, and the addition of new commands.
- The updates focus on improving performance, security, and usability of SQLite.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39004963)

- SQLite 3.45 is out, offering improved performance and reduced database size for JSON-intensive operations.
- Notion Labs is considering using SQLite in their native apps and exploring its use in the browser and server-side.
- Discussion includes the concept of one-db-per-tenant, Turso as a potential solution, obtaining SQLite binaries, interactive release notes, fixing compiler warnings, and a Postgres vs. SQLite comparison.

## [Bluesky Launches RSS Feeds for User Discovery](https://openrss.org/blog/bluesky-has-launched-rss-feeds)

- Bluesky has introduced RSS feeds, enabling users to access an RSS feed for any Bluesky user, facilitating the discovery of user feeds through RSS readers and browser extensions.
- The RSS feeds only include public posts and do not include links. Users can offer feedback to Bluesky to enhance the RSS feeds.
- Open RSS, which relies on voluntary donations, also provides their version of Bluesky RSS feeds.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39007756)

- The discussion centers around Bluesky, a potential replacement for Twitter, and covers various topics such as biased content recommendations, the need for AI filters, and data security concerns.
- Users also explore Bluesky's unique features, financial sustainability, limited user engagement, and self-authenticating posts.
- Other discussions touch on Bluesky's invite system, toxicity on the platform, comparisons with other social media platforms, and users' experiences and opinions. The involvement of Jack Dorsey, the future of RSS feeds, and the pros and cons of Mastodon are also mentioned. The future success of Bluesky is uncertain amidst competition.

## [The Rise of Onigiri: Japan's Comfort Food Revolution](https://one-from-nippon.ghost.io/onigiri/)

- Onigiri is a traditional Japanese food that is a rice ball filled with various ingredients and wrapped in nori (seaweed).
- It became popular in post-war Japan as a convenient and familiar food item sold in supermarkets and convenience stores.
- Onigiri is closely tied to the story of convenience stores in Japan, with different chains competing on freshness, taste, variety, and packaging.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39003417)

- The article explores the ongoing rivalry between the Kansai and Kantou regions of Japan, examining factors such as language, demography, and immigration that contribute to this rivalry.
- It discusses the trends in onigiri, including the increasing popularity of whole grain rice, the decrease in tuna quality in convenience store onigiri, and the availability of vegetarian options.
- The article also delves into the different variations of onigiri found in various countries and the challenges of opening the packaging.

## [Reimagining Software Development: Critiquing Scrum and Promoting Individualized Teamwork](https://blog.mb-consulting.dev/scrum-sucks-9960011fc5cf)

- The article critiques the implementation of Scrum in software development, suggesting teams should define their own approach instead.
- It highlights the challenges and complexities of Scrum, such as the misuse of metrics and the need for trust within teams.
- The author emphasizes collaboration, continuous improvement, and stakeholder involvement in project management, offering engineering services and coaching.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39002740)

- The conversation focuses on the use of agile methodologies, specifically Scrum, in various work environments.
- Participants discuss challenges such as excessive meetings, poor communication, and lack of trust.
- Alternative approaches like Kanban and ShapeUp are mentioned, sparking a debate on the usefulness of agile methodologies.

## [Htmx switches to Zero-Clause BSD license, enabling unrestricted use](https://github.com/bigskysoftware/htmx/commit/e16f1865a494b6281f8a44ed0db5338e718b3f07)

- The repository "bigskysoftware/htmx" has switched its license from the BSD 2-Clause License to the 0-Clause BSD license.
- This change permits the unrestricted use, copying, modification, and distribution of the software without any fees.
- Users are expressing positive feedback and gratitude for the new license.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39003292)

- The htmx software library has switched its license to Zero-Clause BSD, a permissive open-source license.
- There was a social media prank regarding Microsoft's alleged interest in htmx.
- The passage explores discussions on the credibility and professionalism of software projects and concerns about the trustworthiness of MongoDB as a database management system. It also touches on conversations about humor and professionalism on Twitter, open-source licenses and their limitations, cancel culture, Facebook, anti-vaxxers, and political discourse.

## [Transform Vim into a modeless editor, with standard key bindings and improved user-friendliness](https://github.com/SebastianMuskalla/ModelessVim)

- The repository provides config files to transform Vim into a modeless editor, making it easier for users familiar with graphical editors to navigate.
- It includes options for standard key bindings, a top infobar, a bottom statusbar, and default settings.
- The configuration has been tested on specific platforms and versions of Vim and is distributed under the MIT license.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39008533)

- The discussion primarily revolves around text editors, with a focus on Vim and its features.
- Users share positive experiences and discuss the Helix editor, highlighting its helpful features.
- The conversation compares and debates the use of canned and homemade pumpkin purée in pumpkin pie, as well as the definition of pumpkin and the use of different types of squash.
- Later, the discussion explores the differences between Vim, Emacs, and VSCode, touching on user-friendliness, keybindings, and limitations.
- The overall conversation reflects personal preferences and varying opinions on the effectiveness and usefulness of different text editors.

## [Fossify: Community-Backed Open-Source Alternative to Simple Mobile Tools](https://github.com/FossifyOrg)

- Fossify is an open-source mobile app platform that aims to carry on the work of the discontinued @SimpleMobileTools.
- It is community-backed and ad-free, and encourages contributions from users.
- They offer multiple support options, including GitHub Sponsors, Patreon, PayPal, Liberapay, and cryptocurrencies donations, and value the support of the community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39002643)

- Simple Mobile Tools app was acquired by an adware company, prompting the development of a fork by the FossifyOrg project.
- The Fossify project aims to release modified versions of the apps on F-Droid, with the Fossify Gallery app already available.
- Users appreciate the open-source and non-spying nature of the apps, but there are concerns about licensing issues and the fate of external contributions.

## [AI Safety Orgs Push for Limits on Open-Source AI, Sparking Debate](https://1a3orn.com/sub/machine-learning-bans.html)

- AI safety organizations are calling for the banning or restriction of open-source AI models based on specific criteria like computational resources, parameter count, or benchmark performance.
- These proposed bans aim to enhance AI safety, but critics argue that they would hinder research and development in the field.
- The open-source AI movement needs to improve coordination and counter these anti-open source initiatives to safeguard the future of open-source AI.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39009779)

- The passage covers the development and regulation of artificial intelligence (AI) and the various concerns surrounding it.
- There is debate over the criminalization of open-source AI, banning AI beyond a certain capability level, and the burden of proof for AI safety risks.
- The discussion explores the risks and benefits of AI, challenges in modeling superintelligence, potential manipulation of political processes, and the uncertain existence of AGI.

## [The World's Richest Double Their Wealth as Poorest Struggle, Oxfam Report Shows](https://www.theguardian.com/inequality/2024/jan/15/worlds-five-richest-men-double-their-money-as-poorest-get-poorer)

- The wealth of the world's top five billionaires has more than doubled since 2020, while the poorest 60% of the global population have lost money.
- The report by Oxfam highlights the widening wealth gap and predicts the possible emergence of a trillionaire in the next decade.
- The combined wealth of the top five billionaires has increased by $464 billion, while the total wealth of the poorest 4.77 billion people has declined by 0.2%.
- Oxfam proposes a wealth tax of 1% to 2% on wealth above £10 million as a solution to address the wealth imbalance, which could raise £22 billion per year for the UK.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38999517)

- This discussion covers multiple dimensions of wealth inequality, including the challenges faced by the poor and the ongoing debate around providing basic necessities for all individuals.
- The conversation also critiques capitalism and the wealthy elite, while exploring different economic ideologies and the role of luck and government intervention in wealth accumulation.
- Consequences of extreme wealth accumulation, the influence of the ultra-wealthy, and potential solutions like wealth taxes are also discussed, alongside the impact of automation on the economy and the concept of "escape capital."

## [Software Glitch Devastation: Lives Ruined by Post Office Scandal](https://www.cnn.com/2024/01/13/business/uk-post-office-fujitsu-horizon-scandal/index.html)

- The provided information includes code snippets and descriptions of their functionality, covering topics such as CSS styling, JavaScript functionality, advertising configurations, user consent management, and data encoding.
- The UK Post Office scandal is discussed, involving a software glitch that caused financial discrepancies for sub-postmasters, leading to serious consequences, legal battles, and loss of life.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39010070)

- This article discusses real-life cases of software glitches, highlighting the severe consequences they can have, including prison, bankruptcy, and even suicide.
- It emphasizes the need for accountability and safeguards in software engineering, as well as the underestimation of the impact of software glitches.
- The article emphasizes the importance of addressing software issues early on to prevent them from becoming major problems and highlights the challenges of getting non-technical individuals to take software quality seriously.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Mastering Programming: The Importance of Time, Practice, and Hands-on Learning" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Mastering%20Programming%3A%20The%20Importance%20of%20Time%2C%20Practice%2C%20and%20Hands-on%20Learning&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20January%2016%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
