---
slug: '/2024/01/17'
---

# 2024-01-17

## ["Cat and Girl" Comic Licensed Under Creative Commons](https://catandgirl.com/4000-of-my-closest-friends/)

- The statement is a copyright notice for the comic "Cat and Girl" stating that it is licensed under a Creative Commons license.
- The notice provides contact information for the creator of the comic.
- This indicates that the creator has chosen to share their work under certain permissions and conditions outlined by the Creative Commons license.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39016395)

- The debate focuses on the use of copyrighted content in training AI models and the consequences for copyright and fair use.
- It explores the effects of AI on artists and their work, discussing intellectual property, copyright protection, and AI's role in creating art.
- The discussion highlights the need for changes in international copyright regulations, the importance of artist solidarity, and the impact of AI on the job market and the distinction between human and machine-generated output.

## [Developers can offer non-App Store purchasing, but Apple still collects commission](https://www.macrumors.com/2024/01/16/us-app-store-alternative-purchase-option/)

- Apple has revised its U.S. iOS App Store policies, permitting developers to guide users to non-App Store purchasing options for digital goods.
- Apple will continue to receive a commission ranging from 12 to 27 percent on purchases made through these alternative channels.
- Developers must request a StoreKit External Purchase Link Entitlement and follow specific guidelines.
- The modifications arise from Apple's legal dispute with Epic Games and the court's ruling to allow developers to inform customers about in-app purchase alternatives.
- Epic Games CEO Tim Sweeney has voiced disappointment with Apple's amendments and intends to challenge them legally.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39020365)

- The discussion focuses on Apple's App Store and raises concerns about the 30% commission fee, potential anti-competitive practices, and limitations for developers.
- The legal battle between Apple and Epic Games is explored, along with alternative app store options.
- Differing opinions on Apple's fees and the impact on developers and consumers contribute to the ongoing debate surrounding the App Store's policies.

## [The Fascinating Math of Kaprekar's Constant: Uncovering the Secrets of 6174](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/6174)

- The number 6174, known as Kaprekar's constant, is named after mathematician D.R. Kaprekar.
- It follows a specific rule where any four-digit number with at least two different digits is arranged in descending and ascending order, the smaller number is subtracted from the bigger number, and the process is repeated.
- This routine always reaches the fixed point of 6174 in a maximum of 7 iterations, except for repdigits like 1111. The number 6174 also has other mathematical properties, such as being a 7-smooth number and a sum of the first three powers of 18.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39018769)

- The website discussion explores mathematical topics like the number 6174, double ledger accounting, and digit sums.
- Participants discuss the "Kaprekar Machine" that converges on the number 6174 and delve into mathematical phenomena, interesting numbers, and different number bases.
- There is a debate on using base-10 exclusively in examples and the applicability of Kaprekar's constant in different bases. The conversation also includes numerology and mentions a YouTube channel discussing prime number patterns.

## [TinyML: Enabling Machine Learning on Microcontrollers with Limited Resources](https://www.ikkaro.net/what-tinyml-is/)

- TinyML is the application of machine learning in microcontrollers with limited resources, and Harvard offers free courses on TinyML fundamentals, applications, and deployment.
- Techniques like pruning, quantization, and knowledge distillation are used to compress algorithms and make them suitable for microcontrollers.
- TinyML has diverse applications in DIY, maker, hacker communities, industry maintenance, environment monitoring, improving user experience, and assisting people with disabilities. However, concerns exist regarding its effectiveness across different populations and data privacy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39014866)

- TinyML is the implementation of machine learning on low-power hardware, such as the esp32-s3 microcontroller, for real-time computer vision systems.
- Model optimization techniques such as pruning, quantization, and knowledge distillation are used to make the models suitable for low-power devices.
- The comments section explores topics like the use of pretrained models, challenges in interpretability, and the potential applications of TinyML in different industries.

## [Speedbump: Simulate Variable Network Latency with TCP Proxy](https://github.com/kffl/speedbump)

- Speedbump is a TCP proxy tool written in Go that enables users to simulate variable network latency.
- It can be installed via pre-built binaries or by building from source, and can also be utilized as a container.
- Users can customize latency settings, including base latency and various types of latency waves, and combine multiple settings. Speedbump can also function as a Go library. The project is licensed under the Apache 2.0 License.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39012697)

- The summary explores different tools, like Speedbump, `tc netem`, and Toxiproxy, for simulating network issues and impairments for testing purposes.
- It emphasizes the significance of testing applications in realistic network environments and highlights potential limitations of certain tools.
- The discussion covers topics such as buffer size, network traffic management, and factors that impact network speed.

## [Where to Find Good Legal Documents for Your Side Projects](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39012544)

- The person is looking for resources to create legal documents like terms and conditions, privacy policies, and non-disclosure agreements for their side projects.
- They have found some sources but are seeking additional options.
- The specific sources they mention are not provided.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39012544)

- The conversation emphasizes the importance of consulting with a lawyer for proper formatting and legal advice when dealing with legal documents.
- Customized legal contracts are discussed as beneficial, while generic templates are mentioned as having potential drawbacks.
- Clear communication and finding the right lawyer for specific business needs is highlighted, along with various websites and services suggested for finding legal document templates.

## [OpenAI Collaborates with Pentagon, Lifts Ban on Military Tools](https://www.semafor.com/article/01/16/2024/openai-is-working-with-the-pentagon-on-cybersecurity-projects)

- OpenAI has reversed its ban on collaborating with the Pentagon and is now working on cybersecurity software projects with them.
- The company will still maintain its ban on developing weapons.
- This change in policy reflects Silicon Valley's growing acceptance of working with the military, but there are concerns about the risks associated with integrating AI into warfare, such as the potential for generating fake information and the blurring of the boundary between data analysis and warfare.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39020778)

- OpenAI's decision to collaborate with the Pentagon and develop military tools has sparked controversy and raised concerns about the company's commitment to its founding principles.
- The presence of Chinese talent within OpenAI has raised worries about potential displacement and the influence of classified briefings.
- The discussion surrounding OpenAI's decision covers various topics, including ethical boundaries, secrecy, China's advancements in AI, the perception of the US military, national defense organizations, potential misuse of AI technology, the impact of AI on warfare, the role of AI in intelligence and decision-making, and the ethics of using AI in military operations.

## [Canon's Fluorite Lenses: Enhancing Image Quality Beyond Ordinary Glass](https://global.canon/en/c-museum/special/exhibition2.html)

- Canon has developed its own technology for creating large, high-purity artificial fluorite crystals for their lenses.
- Fluorite lenses, made from a combination of artificial fluorite and glass, effectively correct chromatic aberration and produce clear and high-quality images.
- Canon has already produced several lenses using fluorite lens elements that have been widely adopted by photographers due to their improved image quality.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39020258)

- Fluorite lenses offer various benefits in optical applications, including the reduction of chromatic aberration.
- The article explains dispersion and refractive index, fundamental concepts in lens design.
- It also discusses advancements in lens technology, such as the use of computational tools and aspherical elements.

## [Stable Code 3B: Advanced Code Completion with Superior Performance](https://stability.ai/news/stable-code-2024-llm-code-completion-release)

- Stable Code 3B is a 3 billion parameter Large Language Model (LLM) developed for code completion tasks.
- It can operate offline without requiring a GPU and has better performance than CodeLLaMA 7b.
- The model is trained using software engineering-specific data and supports Fill in the Middle functionality, performing well in multiple programming languages. It undergoes pre-training on natural language data and fine-tuning on code-related datasets.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39019532)

- The discussion explores various AI models used in visual art generation and their limitations in terms of customization and effectiveness.
- Users share their experiences, preferences, and concerns about different coding models and tools for AI art generation.
- The discussion also addresses the availability of open-source models, hardware requirements, licensing options, and the debate between using smaller or larger models for coding tasks.

## [Stability issues resolved: Post-mortem analysis of Kagi.com incident](https://status.kagi.com/issues/2024-01-12-kagi-down-on-some-regions/)

- On January 12, 2024, the website Kagi.com encountered stability issues resulting in slow loading and timeouts in multiple regions.
- The problem was initially attributed to an infrastructure upgrade but was later determined to be caused by high contention on rows in the users table.
- The root cause was resolved by disabling problematic writes and implementing upgrades to the database driver. Steps have been taken to enhance system resilience and improve communication processes, including the implementation of additional monitoring and automated limits to prevent similar issues in the future.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39019119)

- The post highlights the recent incident at Kagi during an infrastructure upgrade and advises against panicking and making hasty decisions during outages.
- Discussions regarding interns in companies, status page updates, the usefulness of the Kagi Assistant, technical issues, monitoring, and troubleshooting are included.
- User concerns are raised about authentication issues, downtime, and scraping, while Kagi has implemented new limits due to search engine abuse. Users are suggesting alternative options and requesting flexible pricing plans.

## [Running Rails 1.0 on Ruby 3.3: Feasibility and Challenges](https://nashby.github.io/2024/01/15/ruby-3-on-rails-1/)

- The author, Vasiliy Ermolovich, explores the possibility of running Rails 1.0 on the latest Ruby version, Rails 8.0.
- They encounter challenges such as syntax errors, missing libraries, and string encoding changes.
- Ultimately, they are successful in generating and starting an app on Ruby 3.3, although further issues may need to be resolved for complete functionality.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39012235)

- The article explores the potential of using Crystal instead of Ruby for running the newest version of Rails.
- It discusses the challenges and modifications required for this transition and compares it to the experiences of transitioning from Ruby to Python.
- The discussion also covers the differences in backward compatibility, migration issues, advantages and limitations of statically typed languages, and the significance of good CI/CD practices and testing environments.

## [Is the Era of Passwords Over? A Look at the Evolution of Authentication Methods](https://jcarlosroldan.com/post/315/passwordless-a-different-kind-of-hell)

- The article explores the historical progression of authentication methods and evaluates their effectiveness in terms of user experience and security.
- Various methods, including passwords, code words, password managers, and two-factor authentication, are discussed in the article.
- The article highlights the potential of future advancements such as Single Sign-On and biometrics but acknowledges that the current user experience in authentication is not ideal.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39013036)

- The discussions covered frustrations with multiple password authentication layers during online purchases.
- Participants preferred various methods for two-factor authentication and debated the effectiveness of email and account services.
- The discussions also touched on the security and convenience of Apple Pay, experiences with online retailer checkouts, and the significance of trust in online transactions.

## [OutRun: Open-source Fitness Tracker for Outdoor Workouts](https://github.com/timfraedrich/OutRun)

- OutRun is an iOS app that lets users record and monitor their outdoor workouts like running, walking, cycling, etc.
- The app is open-source, ad-free, and offers features like data control, detailed statistics, and workout export options.
- Users can contribute to the app by sharing it, joining beta testing, reporting issues, writing code, or assisting with translation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39014652)

- The open-source fitness tracker OutRun receives positive feedback, particularly for its sleep tracking capabilities.
- Users recommend other devices like the Oura ring and Ultrahuman Ring Air for sleep tracking.
- There is a debate about the accuracy and limitations of sleep tracking devices, with a desire for more sensors to improve accuracy.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="'Cat and Girl' Comic Licensed Under Creative Commons" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=%22Cat%20and%20Girl%22%20Comic%20Licensed%20Under%20Creative%20Commons&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20January%2017%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
