---
slug: '/2024/01/18'
---

# 2024-01-18

## [Users on Stack Exchange speculate about origin and meaning of ball with axe image and letter 'Y'](https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/395382/which-word-begins-with-y-and-looks-like-an-axe-in-this-picture)

- Users on Stack Exchange are discussing a ball with an image of an axe and the letter "Y," speculating on its origin and meaning, with potential Swedish influences mentioned.
- The conversation also explores the use of the term "U-boat" and attempts to identify the manufacturer of the ball.
- The discussion takes a humorous turn as users brainstorm words starting with the letter Y.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39034160)

- The article discusses debates and speculations surrounding an image that resembles an axe and starts with the letter "y".
- Various theories are presented, including speculation about Chinese manufacturing, Swedish words, and translation errors.
- The discussions also touch on unrelated topics such as math problems, memes, and language translation humor.

## [Finding Strength: A Parent's Journey Through Tragedy and Hope](https://www.fortressofdoors.com/i-lost-my-son/)

- The writer's seven-year-old son experienced cardiac arrest and suffered severe brain damage, leading to a bleak prognosis.
- Despite the challenges, the writer maintains hope and leans on faith, expressing the emotional impact of seeing their son's MRI results.
- The son is currently under hospice care at home, and the parents are fully dedicated to his care, resulting in the writer stepping away from a game development project.
- Financial support is provided through public medical assistance, and the writer is now involved in real estate appraisal technology.
- Despite the difficulties faced, the writer emphasizes the importance of finding joy and strength amidst despair, reflecting on tragic stories.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39036842)

- The conversations cover a variety of topics, such as caring for a disabled child, childhood trauma, overcoming trauma, grief and loss, and tragedies.
- People in the conversations provide support and empathy to those sharing their experiences, while others discuss various approaches to healing and managing trauma and grief.
- There are also discussions about the complexities and challenges of dealing with loss and trauma, as well as disagreements and different perspectives on certain topics.

## [AlphaGeometry: AI System Solves Olympiad-Level Geometry Problems and Advances Reasoning for Next-Gen AI](https://deepmind.google/discover/blog/alphageometry-an-olympiad-level-ai-system-for-geometry/)

- AlphaGeometry is an AI system created by Google DeepMind and New York University that solves complex geometry problems.
- It combines a neural language model and symbolic deduction engine to reason through geometric theorems.
- AlphaGeometry outperforms previous AI systems and approaches the level of human gold medalists in solving Olympiad-level geometry problems.
- The system was trained using 100 million synthetic data examples generated through a knowledge-building process.
- AlphaGeometry's solutions are verifiable, clean, and human-readable.
- The project aims to advance reasoning for next-generation AI systems and contribute to the development of general AI.
- The code and model of AlphaGeometry are open-sourced.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39029801)

- DeepMind has developed AlphaGeometry, an AI system that excels in solving geometry problems at an Olympiad level.
- AlphaGeometry uses brute force computation and additional geometric constructions to find solutions.
- The release of code and weights by DeepMind for their model enables further exploration and application of AI technology in math problem-solving.
- AI systems like AlphaGeometry have the potential to advance fields like science and math, but there are limitations and discrepancies in research papers that need to be addressed.
- The combination of neural networks with traditional mathematical systems is a promising avenue for further development in this area.

## [Apple Utilizes Cassandra and FoundationDB to Build iCloud for Storing Billions of Databases](https://read.engineerscodex.com/p/how-apple-built-icloud-to-store-billions)

- Apple developed iCloud using technologies like Cassandra and FoundationDB for storing billions of databases and enhancing user functionalities through asynchronous processing and a stateless architecture.
- The article highlights the importance of building abstractions and understanding user needs in infrastructure design.
- Apple faced scalability issues with Cassandra and turned to FoundationDB, which provides powerful abstractions through the FoundationDB Record Layer for applications. CloudKit, Apple's cloud service, utilizes a stateless architecture and record store abstraction for easy scalability.
- FoundationDB helps address challenges such as personalized full-text search and high-concurrency zones, while the Record Layer improves latency and manages transaction conflicts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39028672)

- The summary explores the similarities and differences between databases and file systems, and discusses the challenges of using databases for file storage.
- It introduces the concept of a relational filesystem and highlights the issues with iCloud's file sync feature.
- The summary touches on various aspects of storage options, economies of scale in data storage, and the limitations of current storage implementations.

## [Hacker gains access to sensitive customer data through insurance company's premium calculator.](https://eaton-works.com/2024/01/17/ttibi-email-hack/)

- A researcher successfully hacked into the premium calculator website of Eicher Motors, which is hosted on a subdomain of Toyota Tsusho Insurance Broker India (TTIBI).
- By exploiting vulnerabilities in the website's email sending API, the researcher gained access to a Microsoft email account containing 657k emails, including customer information, insurance policy PDFs, passwords reset links, and OTPs.
- Despite being notified, TTIBI has not changed the email account's password and the researcher did not receive a bug bounty reward for reporting the issue to CERT-In.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39030302)

- The collection of discussions covers various security incidents, vulnerabilities, and flaws in IT systems.
- Topics include cultural issues within Indian IT firms, poor data storage practices in a car dealership, email system vulnerabilities, data breaches, and lack of security measures in companies, incompetence of individuals in IT positions, cryptography flaws, responsibility of companies to prevent breaches, and bug bounties.
- Concerns are raised about the effectiveness of security measures, lack of response or legal penalties, and the role of individuals in discovering vulnerabilities and reporting them.

## [John Lasseter: From "Toy Story" director to BSD Daemon logo designer](https://www.jacobelder.com/2024/01/17/director-of-toy-story-also-drew-bsd-daemon.html)

- The director of "Toy Story", John Lassetter, designed the BSD Daemon logo and discovered a set of 4.3 BSD manuals at the MIT Flea Market.
- The manuals, featuring the iconic Beastie Daemon mascot with a trident, were designed by Lassetter himself before his work in Pixar.
- The books were published in April 1986, indicating Lassetter's involvement with Pixar had already begun by then.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39030991)

- The text covers a range of topics, including the creation of the BSD daemon logo by John Lasseter, experiences with OpenBSD as an operating system, and artwork related to OpenBSD and the Go(lang) mascot.
- It explores the connections between industry leaders in the tech revolution and instances of thought leaders crossing over into different industries.
- Controversies surrounding figures like Steve Jobs, Bill Gates, and John Lasseter, including allegations of sexual harassment against John Lasseter, are also discussed.

## [Willow: A Secure, Efficient Peer-to-Peer Data Storage Protocol](https://willowprotocol.org/)

- Willow is a peer-to-peer data storage protocol that provides fine-grained permissions, privacy, destructive edits, and low bandwidth and memory usage.
- It offers always-available storage, end-to-end encryption, complete data erasure, and precise access control.
- Willow supports partial synchronization, destructive edits, and concurrent writing from multiple devices.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39026791)

- The Willow Protocol is a versatile protocol that lets users customize their namespace identifiers, with discussions focusing on protocol compatibility, encryption, peer-to-peer networking, and data erasure.
- Participants express both confusion and skepticism about Willow, while also mentioning alternative protocols and technologies.
- Earthstar, the implementation of Willow, receives both enthusiasm and skepticism, and discussions also touch on the scalability and compatibility of the protocol. Additionally, Iroh has been released for different operating systems.

## [Reflections on Leaving Google: A Personal Account of Coping with Layoffs and Shifting Cultures](https://social.clawhammer.net/blog/posts/2024-01-10-GoogleExitLetter/)

- The author and many others were laid off from Google in a recent cost-saving initiative round of layoffs.
- The layoffs were impersonal and likely a result of generic cost-saving measures.
- The author is handling the situation well, having prepared for the layoffs, and plans to take a sabbatical before sharing their career experience at Google and how the culture has evolved in the future.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39034277)

- The summary explores different aspects of Google, including changes in its corporate culture, leadership criticism, acquisitions, innovations, layoffs, privacy concerns, and the perception of the tech industry.
- The discussion presents a diverse range of opinions and experiences, shedding light on both positive and negative aspects of working at Google.
- It also touches on broader topics such as ethics, profitability, and the future of the tech industry.

## [Apple's Controversial 27% Tax Restricts Web Purchase Competition](https://twitter.com/TimSweeneyEpic/status/1747408148799881390)

- Apple has imposed a 27% tax on web purchases, hindering price competition and raising concerns of anticompetitive behavior.
- Developers must now charge the same price for digital items on the web as they do on the App Store, despite the tax incurred.
- This move by Apple has been criticized for stifling competition and limiting consumer choice.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39034951)

- Apple is now allowing US developers to offer non-App Store purchases, but they still require developers to make Apple in-app purchases available, following a court ruling allowing alternate payment options.
- There are concerns about the potential cost implications and uneven enforcement of these new rules, as well as Apple's responsibility for in-app purchases and lawsuits over unauthorized purchases.
- The ongoing legal battle between Apple and Epic Games is discussed, including differing perspectives on their behavior and motivations. The conversation touches on the importance of competition, concerns about app availability, and the impact of Apple's fees on developers.

## [Why I Love Obsidian: Enhancing Note-Taking and Productivity](https://www.ddanieltan.com/posts/obsidian/)

- The note-taking tool Obsidian offers a positive and unique experience for users.
- Obsidian allows the structure of notes to grow organically, enhancing organization and flexibility.
- The capability to link atomic ideas in Obsidian fosters greater understanding and connection between concepts.
- Obsidian's use of plain text files ensures future-proofing and easy accessibility.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39027154)

- Users engage in a discussion about the features and limitations of the note-taking app Obsidian.
- Other note-taking systems like OneNote, Zettelkasten, and alternative apps such as Logseq, Trilium, and Dendron are mentioned as potential alternatives to Obsidian.
- The conversation covers topics like syncing and compatibility issues, advantages and drawbacks of Obsidian compared to other tools, file formats, plugins, and the need for flexible data movement.

## [Hacker News Readers' Top Books of 2023 Revealed by HN Reads](https://hnreads.com/post/top40_2023/)

- HN Reads is a new website that analyzes data from Hacker News to generate a list of the top 40 books recommended in 2023.
- The list includes popular titles such as "Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs" and "Gödel, Escher, Bach."
- Controversial figures like Elon Musk and Ayn Rand did not make the top 40, but there is an "almost-made-it" list for books mentioned 5 or 6 times.
- The website includes Amazon affiliate links for the books mentioned.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39034421)

- The Hacker News compiled a list of top books for 2023 based on user suggestions, sparking debate about bias among users.
- Users recommend and discuss technical books like "Crafting Interpreters" and engage in discussions about different genres, accessibility, and pricing frustrations.
- The conversation largely centers around books on success, leadership, and personal development, with some expressing cynicism towards these types of lists.

## [The Rust project struggles with burnout: Addressing the cycle and finding solutions](https://jyn.dev/2024/01/16/the-rust-project-has-a-burnout-problem.html)

- The Rust project is facing a significant issue with burnout among its members, resulting in the departure of many individuals and others nearing the point of burnout.
- The cycle of burnout is attributed to individuals feeling compelled to drive progress and taking on overwhelming workloads.
- To combat burnout, suggestions include treating project contributions as a job, avoiding excessive overtime and volunteering, and providing documentation on addressing burnout.
- Team leads are urged to rotate responsibilities, address excessive work reviewing, and prioritize creating a healthy environment over technical matters.
- The author acknowledges that addressing burnout necessitates cultural, organizational, and resource changes within the Rust project.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39026855)

- The Rust project is facing the issue of burnout among its contributors, caused by factors such as excessive workloads and entitled comments from users.
- The limitations of platforms like GitHub for community building are also discussed, highlighting the impact of engagement on GitHub and Microsoft, as well as concerns about platform changes and user dissatisfaction.
- Strategies to address burnout and enhance community engagement are suggested, along with discussions on the challenges of maintaining open-source projects and the declining popularity of certain programming languages.

## [WhisperSpeech: an Open-Source Text-to-Speech System Based on Whisper](https://github.com/collabora/WhisperSpeech)

- WhisperSpeech is an open-source text-to-speech system built on the powerful Whisper model, aiming to be customizable and similar to Stable Diffusion.
- The current models are trained on the English LibreLight dataset, with future releases targeting multiple languages.
- The project is sponsored by Collabora and LAION, and the team is available for consulting on open-source and proprietary AI projects.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39036796)

- The discussion focuses on various text-to-speech (TTS) tools and resources, including WhisperSpeech, EmotiVoice, and Mimic 3, with an emphasis on Mandarin Chinese speech synthesis.
- OpenAI's TTS is recommended for its quality and affordability, and comparisons are made with TTS generators used by chatGPT, Eleven Labs, and Azure.
- Users share their experiences and challenges in using AI models for different applications, while discussing the difficulties of productizing new technology. The concept of exponential growth in ML models is also explained and generates further interest and questions.

## [Introducing HtmlDocs: Create Beautiful PDFs with HTML/CSS](https://htmldocs.com)

- HtmlDocs is an editor that uses HTML/CSS to create well-formatted PDFs like invoices and resumes.
- It has a templating engine and a Chromium rendering pipeline to generate the PDFs.
- HtmlDocs sets itself apart by supporting modern CSS features and minimizing discrepancies between the HTML document and PDF.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39027543)

- Users are expressing frustration with outdated and limited tools like wkhtmltopdf for converting HTML/CSS documents into PDFs.
- Alternatives like Typst, Paged.js, and WeasyPrint are being suggested as better options.
- There is a debate on whether CSS can effectively replace LaTeX for typesetting and scientific publications.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Users on Stack Exchange speculate about origin and meaning of ball with axe image and letter 'Y'" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Users%20on%20Stack%20Exchange%20speculate%20about%20origin%20and%20meaning%20of%20ball%20with%20axe%20image%20and%20letter%20'Y'&subheading=Thursday%2C%20January%2018%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
