---
slug: '/2024/01/21'
---

# 2024-01-21

## [Spotube: Open-source Spotify client with YouTube integration](https://github.com/KRTirtho/spotube)

- Spotube is an open-source Spotify client that can be used without a Spotify Premium subscription.
- It utilizes Spotify's data API and offers alternative audio sources like YouTube, Piped.video, or JioSaavn.
- Features include no ads, downloadable tracks, cross-platform support, small size, low data usage, anonymous login, time-synced lyrics, and native performance. It does not collect user data or support Spotify Shows & Podcasts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39066136)

- The discussion encompasses several aspects of music streaming platforms such as API keys, Spotify's podcast limitations, DRM concerns, audio quality, Spotify vs. YouTube comparison, frustrations with shuffle play, impacts on artists' earnings, alternative platforms like Bandcamp, and suggestions for supporting musicians financially.
- The conversation emphasizes the importance of better artist compensation and the exploration of alternative streaming models.
- This comprehensive discussion sheds light on the current challenges and potential solutions in the music streaming industry.

## [Russia Blocks OpenVPN/WireGuard Connections, Raising Concerns of Isolated Internet](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39067213)

- Russian internet users are facing difficulties in accessing VPN services that use OpenVPN/WireGuard protocols, and some are experiencing issues with SSH connections.
- Concerns are rising about the potential for a restricted internet in Russia.
- The situation has received significant attention in the Russian internet community, but has not gained much coverage in English-speaking media.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39067213)

- The conversation explores internet censorship in Russia and China, independent polling in repressive regimes, and political situations in Ukraine and Russia.
- Participants discuss bypassing censorship and maintaining anonymity online, as well as concerns about expanding government control and the potential blocking of internet access in Russia.
- There are also discussions about video game matchmaking and the factors that contribute to a challenging gaming experience.

## [Ubisoft's Intentions Stir Controversy: Consumers to Embrace Non-Ownership](https://www.techdirt.com/2024/01/19/ubisoft-says-it-out-loud-we-want-people-to-get-used-to-not-owning-what-theyve-bought/)

- Ubisoft's transparency about their intentions may not be popular among gamers, but it is unlikely to significantly impact industry trends or top executives at other companies.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39067974)

- The shift in consumer behavior towards digital ownership of games is the main focus of the discussion.
- The challenges in preserving and accessing digital games are being addressed.
- Pros and cons of subscription services, piracy, intellectual property, and their impact on game ownership are being debated.

## [Tax Deal aims to help struggling small businesses with R&D amortization](https://twitter.com/mjwhansen/status/1748345492998696961)

- The bipartisan Tax Deal is designed to support struggling small businesses by offering R&D amortization.
- The focus of the tax relief is on small businesses that use software, according to Michele Hansen, who has interviewed many small business owners on the topic.
- The purpose of this tax relief is to provide assistance and encourage innovation in small businesses.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39066724)

- The discussion delves into tax regulations affecting software companies, specifically regarding the classification of software development as R&D expenses.
- Concerns are raised about the potential impact of these tax changes on small businesses, and strategies are discussed to mitigate the increased tax burdens.
- The effectiveness, fairness, and implications for innovation and competition of the tax policies are debated, and broader subjects like party politics, employment laws, and benefits of operating in different countries are touched upon.

## [Wandering.shop: The Decentralized Social Network Powered by Mastodon](https://wandering.shop/@youseeatortoise/111782434593735690)

- wandering.shop is a decentralized social network powered by Mastodon.
- Users can search with filters, login, create accounts, and interact with posts, profiles, and hashtags.
- The platform offers server statistics, a privacy policy, and the ability to interact from different servers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39066444)

- The conversation thread covers several topics such as the removal of a cookbook from Amazon, limitations of AI-generated content, alternative publishing platforms, concerns about racial connotations in language, experiences with buying books outside of Amazon, and the warranty process for Amazon products.
- Participants share their personal experiences and opinions on these subjects, discussing the benefits and drawbacks of different platforms.
- This conversation provides a diverse range of perspectives on various aspects of book publishing and purchasing.

## [The Animators' Plight: Low Wages and Overwork in the $25B Anime Industry](https://hitregbroke.com/anime/)

- The anime industry, valued at $25 billion, faces a significant issue of low wages for animators.
- The article discusses the reasons behind this problem and the lack of concern for it, highlighting a case of employee suicide at A1 Pictures.
- Overwork in Japan's work culture is identified as a challenge to addressing this issue.
- The role of Osamu Tezuka in the industry and the impact of economic factors on working conditions are explored.
- The lack of control manga artists have over anime adaptations and the unsuccessful efforts to secure retirement benefits for animators are discussed.
- The dominance of Production Committees and potential solutions are examined.
- The article emphasizes the need to address the discrepancy between low wages and high living costs for animators.
- The importance of quality control and thorough checking in anime production is highlighted.
- Public awareness and support are identified as necessary, with a call for action and change in the industry.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39074062)

- The anime and entertainment industries in Japan are facing issues of low pay and poor working conditions.
- There is a debate on the importance of fair wages and its potential impact on the industry.
- Topics discussed include the influence of AI, the role of unions in negotiating better employment conditions, translation and localization in anime, and the impact of AI on the music industry.

## [Introducing Bun Shell: Streamlining Shell Scripting in JavaScript](https://bun.sh/blog/the-bun-shell)

- Running shell scripts in JavaScript can be challenging due to differences in syntaxes and commands across platforms.
- The Bun Shell is an embedded language and interpreter in Bun that allows for cross-platform shell scripting in JavaScript and TypeScript.
- The Bun Shell aims to provide a streamlined and efficient solution for running shell scripts in JavaScript, addressing the complexities and inconsistencies of existing shells.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39071688)

- Users are discussing the new shell called Bun Shell, expressing concerns about compatibility, replacing existing commands, and bloated coreutils.
- The tool is praised for its simplicity, innovation, and usefulness in scripting tasks.
- The conversation also covers the availability of different shells, with alternative options being recommended.
- The developer of Bun responds to questions and feedback, addressing concerns about import names and stability.
- The discussion expands to include the programming language Zig, with users sharing experiences and discussing its stability.
- Other topics covered include scripting in JavaScript, performance issues with shell commands in Node.js, tagged templates, Lit Element, and the rimraf library.
- Concerns are raised about security risks and the limitations of using Bun Shell.
- The discussion also explores ZSH, templating languages, JSON and YAML configuration files, and cross-platform compatibility.
- A debate arises about synchronous vs asynchronous execution and negative experiences with a hosting provider.

## [Tesla Employees Misuse Vehicle Cameras, Sparking Privacy Lawsuits](https://www.motorbiscuit.com/tesla-employees-using-vehicle-cameras-to-spy-on-private-scenes-owners-suing/)

- Tesla employees have been caught misusing the autopilot and cabin cameras in vehicles, sharing the captured images on the company's internal chat platform.
- As a result of this misuse, Tesla is facing lawsuits from owners who claim their privacy has been violated.
- The lawsuits highlight concerns about the potential misuse of in-car cameras and raise questions about privacy and data security in autonomous vehicles.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39067178)

- The discussion revolves around concerns and controversies surrounding Tesla vehicles, such as privacy issues, camera surveillance, reliability in cold weather, and access to customer footage.
- Different participants hold contrasting views, with some defending Tesla and others expressing valid concerns about privacy and ethical practices.
- The overall consensus emphasizes the importance of improved governance, data security, and transparency from Tesla.

## [Coffeehouse: Connect and Chat with Random Hacker News Users](https://coffeehouse.chat/hn)

- Coffeehouse is a platform that enables Hacker News users to engage in voice conversations with random users.
- The platform offers protection against recaptcha, ensuring a smooth and hassle-free experience.
- It provides an opportunity for Hacker News users to connect and have meaningful one-on-one discussions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39067496)

- The texts discuss platforms or websites where users can engage in one-on-one voice or text chats with random strangers.
- Opinions about these platforms are mixed, with some users finding it enjoyable and positive, while others have privacy concerns and reservations about talking to strangers.
- Alternatives and suggestions mentioned include text-based conversations, IRC, or Discord, and the discussions touch on topics like social anxiety, accessibility, and technical issues.

## [NASA Loses Contact with Mars Helicopter Ingenuity During 72nd Flight](https://www.space.com/nasa-loses-contact-ingenuity-mars-helicopter)

- NASA has lost contact with the Ingenuity Mars helicopter during its 72nd flight on Mars, after it successfully reached its maximum altitude and started its descent.
- The communication loss occurred while the helicopter was serving as a scout for the Perseverance rover.
- NASA is actively analyzing data and determining the next steps to reestablish communication, but it remains uncertain if contact with the helicopter can be regained.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39070784)

- The discussion covers various topics related to NASA, including its communication strategies, mission performance, and longevity.
- It explores the challenges faced by NASA in designing equipment for space missions and the factors contributing to successful engineering endeavors.
- The conversation also touches on NASA's framing and public perception, debates on resource allocation, and the importance of managing expectations and understanding the complexities of engineering projects.

## [The Hassle of QR Code Menus: A Plea for Physical Menus](https://thewalrus.ca/qr-code-restaurant-menu/)

- The author expresses a preference for physical menus over QR code menus in restaurants, citing the enjoyable experience of reading menus during their trip to Italy.
- The author lists minor inconveniences of using QR code menus, such as the need to look at screens and navigate through multiple tabs.
- The author raises concerns about privacy implications, exclusion of certain patrons, and potential job losses in the service industry due to the adoption of QR code menus.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39070246)

- The use of QR code menus in restaurants is a topic of discussion, with varying opinions and experiences.
- Some people find digital menus convenient and efficient, while others prefer traditional physical menus and value personal interaction with waitstaff.
- Concerns are raised regarding issues like connectivity, privacy, cleanliness, and the overall impact on the dining experience.
- The discussion also touches on broader topics such as the adoption of advanced payment technology and the preference for cash or digital payments.
- Legal obligations for businesses to accept cash as a form of payment are also addressed.

## [Fujitsu Lifebook AH532 BIOS Vanishes: Investigating the Solution](https://blog.timschumi.net/2024/01/20/ah532-bios-investigation.html)

- The author investigates an issue with a Fujitsu laptop where the BIOS setup menu is inaccessible.
- They attempt different methods to resolve the issue, including resetting BIOS settings and flashing the BIOS.
- Discovering that a specific command clears the boot menu and renders the BIOS setup menu unusable, they provide a temporary solution and plan to address the problem permanently later on.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39070871)

- The discussion focuses on the challenges of accessing and modifying UEFI variables, especially in Linux operating systems.
- Suggestions are made for potential solutions, such as developing a tool that can work on both Linux and Windows.
- Some users have encountered problems with flashing and recommend using specific hardware components. Pre-installed Windows versions are mentioned as potentially resolving hardware/firmware issues, reducing the incentive to investigate further. The importance of a comprehensive and multiplatform solution for modifying UEFI boot variables is emphasized.

## [Diskprices.com's Outdated Design Rakes in $5k/Month with Affiliate Marketing](https://medium.com/@petervoica/how-an-ugly-single-page-website-makes-5-000-a-month-with-affiliate-marketing-c4974a8d1d69)

- A single-page website called diskprices.com, created by Jeremy Grosser, is earning $5,000 per month through paid affiliate links.
- The website showcases discounted hard drives from Amazon and is updated regularly.
- Despite its outdated design, the website has managed to achieve significant success in generating online income.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39066480)

- Diskprices.com is an affiliate marketing website that earns $5k per month by providing information on hard drive prices, although its accuracy may not be perfect.
- The site's success is due to its backlinks and the creator's expertise in SEO (Search Engine Optimization).
- Users on various platforms discuss topics like online shopping user experience, website design, SEO tactics, and content accessibility, praising the website's fast filtering system and ability to cater to user preferences. Some discuss Amazon's policies on affiliate links and the website's compliance with disclosure requirements.

## [Test Your Knowledge of C Programming with Words and Buttons Online Platform](https://wordsandbuttons.online/so_you_think_you_know_c.html)

- Words and Buttons Online is an interactive platform that provides tutorials, demos, and quizzes on mathematics, algorithms, and programming.
- Programmers can test their knowledge of the C programming language with a five-question test that requires selecting the correct return value.
- The website also offers additional resources like books on C programming and geometry for programmers, as well as links to their Github and RSS feeds.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39072319)

- The discussions focus on various aspects of programming in C, such as data types, undefined behavior, compatibility issues, and code writing challenges.
- Participants share their opinions and experiences, emphasizing the significance of understanding implementation-defined and undefined behavior in C programming.
- The discussions also touch on other programming languages, embedded systems, complexity management, and unique challenges and quirks associated with C programming.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Spotube: Open-source Spotify client with YouTube integration" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Spotube%3A%20Open-source%20Spotify%20client%20with%20YouTube%20integration&subheading=Sunday%2C%20January%2021%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
