---
slug: '/2024/01/22'
---

# 2024-01-22

## [Flipper Zero: A Versatile Multi-Tool for Hackers and Geeks](https://flipperzero.one)

- Flipper Zero is a portable multi-tool device designed for pentesters and geeks, offering customization and open-source capabilities for hacking digital systems such as radio protocols, access control systems, and hardware.
- It features a 1.4" monochrome LCD display, a 5-button directional pad, and various connectivity options like Bluetooth, NFC, and infrared.
- The device can read and emulate RFID cards, has a microSD card slot for storage, and can be controlled autonomously or connected to a computer or smartphone for advanced features, making hardware exploration and development more enjoyable and convenient.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39084137)

- The Flipper Zero is a versatile multi-tool device with various functions, including acting as an IR remote.
- It has sparked discussions about its affordability compared to other alternatives and Chinese brands with IR blasters on their phones.
- The device has faced controversy and limitations, including crashing iPhones, being banned by Amazon, and concerns about data exchange capabilities and privacy implications.

## [NASA Reconnects with Mars Mini-Helicopter amidst Communication Outage](https://phys.org/news/2024-01-nasa-regains-contact-mini-helicopter.amp)

- NASA has successfully regained contact with its mini-helicopter on Mars following a communication disruption.
- The provided CSS code is used to style various elements on a website, such as features, breadcrumbs, fact-checking messages, and a slide-in menu.
- The code ensures a consistent visual appearance of webpages and includes media queries for responsive design.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39078669)

- NASA has successfully reestablished communication with its Linux-powered mini-helicopter, Ingenuity, on Mars.
- The discussion revolves around software development for the mission, including the use of Python scripts and the potential for cost reduction in the aerospace industry.
- SpaceX's strategies for cost-cutting and in-house component production are highlighted, along with the importance of rad-hardening in critical applications. The potential use of helicopters on Mars and the challenges of designing aircraft systems for Mars exploration are also explored.

## [Restrictions on Password: Avoid Select, Insert, Update, Delete, Drop](https://id.uni-lj.si/DigitalnaIdentiteta/PonastavitevGesla?culture=en-GB)

- This page is used for resetting the password of a digital identity.
- Users are required to provide their personal information and username to reset their password.
- The password must be strong and meet specific criteria.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39078372)

- The discussions cover a range of topics related to password security, web application firewalls, encryption, data mishandling, and best practices in database management.
- Participants explore the vulnerabilities associated with passwords, SQL injection attacks, plaintext storage, and improper handling of user input.
- Recommendations include proper password storage, input sanitization, parameterized SQL, and the use of encryption layers.

## [GPT-3.5 Vulnerability: Misspelled Phrase Causes Error Message and Raises Concerns of Data Poisoning](https://iter.ca/post/gpt-crash/)

- Adding a specific phrase at the top of the response to ChatGPT 3.5 consistently triggers an error message.
- This error does not occur with GPT-4 or when using the GPT-3.5 API.
- The error is likely caused by the tokenization process used in OpenAI's GPT models.
- The specific phrase is a misspelled option name found in XML configuration files for Katalon Studio software.
- The dataset used to train GPT-3.5 may have excluded XML files, leading the model to be unaware of the misspelled token and producing invalid responses.
- This discovery raises concerns about potential data poisoning and undermining the summarization capabilities of GPT-3.5.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39086106)

- The discussion focuses on AI language models, especially glitches with specific tokens, token generation, and their impact on text conversion.
- The conversation includes topics such as training sets, tokenizers, and the appearance and functionality of GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 models.
- Users have mixed opinions on visual issues, the speed, and usefulness of GPT-4 with the API, as well as skepticism towards OpenAI's approach and the ability to prove thinking.

## [Legendary Bell Labs Prepares to Leave N.J. Home, Sparks Nostalgic Memories](https://www.nj.com/essex/2024/01/remembering-bell-labs-as-legendary-idea-factory-prepares-to-leave-nj-home.html)

- Nokia Bell Labs, known for its groundbreaking inventions, is relocating its headquarters from Murray Hill to a new tech hub in New Brunswick, sparking nostalgia among current and former employees.
- The move to the HELIX innovation center in New Brunswick, set to begin in 2025, aims to create a state-of-the-art research and development facility that meets the needs of Bell Labs researchers.
- Despite the move, Bell Labs does not anticipate reducing its staff and remains committed to innovation and creating transformative technologies.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39077867)

- Nokia Bell Labs is moving from New Jersey to New Brunswick, prompting discussions on the historical importance of the Murray Hill campus and the new HELIX innovation center.
- The conversation explores various topics such as notable buildings, personal experiences, and book recommendations.
- There is a admiration for research-focused companies like Bell Labs and a call for more concentrated research and development centers.

## [Scientists Develop Peptide Compound to Target Protein Fueling Cancer](https://phys.org/news/2024-01-scientists-chaotic-protein-fueling-cancers.html)

- Researchers at the University of California - Riverside have created a peptide compound that targets the protein MYC, commonly found in cancer cells.
- By modifying the structure of the peptide, the researchers enhanced its ability to interact with MYC, allowing it to bind strongly to the protein.
- This development shows promise in the development of new cancer treatments, and the researchers are focused on improving the peptide's ability to enter cells.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39084146)

- Scientists have identified a molecule that can block the activity of the MYC protein, which is responsible for fueling 75% of cancers.
- This discovery offers a potential treatment option for cancer, but its effectiveness, delivery methods, and potential side effects are still unknown.
- While this is a promising development, it is important to note that it is still in the early stages and has not been tested on humans. Cancer research is a complex field, and success is not guaranteed, but it plays a vital role in advancing cancer care.

## [Google admits tracking users in Incognito mode, despite privacy claims](https://news.abplive.com/technology/google-incognito-new-disclaimer-canary-version-you-are-being-tracked-even-in-google-incognito-mode-new-disclaimer-is-up-privacy-lawsuit-1658159)

- Google has updated its disclaimer for Incognito mode to make it clear that user data is still collected, despite claims of privacy.
- The updated disclaimer states that while others using the same device won't see the user's activity, data will still be collected by the websites visited and the services used, including Google itself.
- This confirms suspicions that Google tracks user activities even when they are in Incognito mode, so users are advised to be cautious when using it.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39078417)

- There is ongoing debate about Google's tracking practices in incognito mode and the potential impact on user privacy.
- Some users claim that Google still tracks their activity even in incognito mode, while others question the extent of the tracking and its connection to non-incognito sessions.
- Suggestions for maintaining privacy include using alternative browsers or privacy-oriented tools, and there is a call for clearer communication from Google regarding the limitations of incognito mode.

## [Buffalofish Defy Aging: Some Live Past 100 and Stay Healthy](https://www.nationalgeographic.com/premium/article/buffalofish-oldest-hundred-years-mystery)

- A recent study conducted at Apache Lake in Arizona has discovered that buffalofish, a type of freshwater fish, can live for over 100 years and have strong immune systems and stress responses as they age.
- Previously, it was believed that buffalofish only lived until their mid-20s.
- The findings suggest that further research on buffalofish longevity could provide insights into extending the lifespan of vertebrates, including humans. Additionally, the study highlights the need for conservation efforts as buffalofish populations are declining and there are currently no regulations on their harvest.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39078061)

- The discussion thread covers various topics, such as the lifespan of fish species, the impact of immortality on society, advancements in life extension technologies, and overpopulation concerns.
- It emphasizes the significance of adaptability, societal fairness, and the potential need for government intervention.
- The conversation includes humorous and sarcastic comments alongside the serious discussions.

## [C23 Standard Introduces New Features to C Programming Language](https://lemire.me/blog/2024/01/21/c23-a-slightly-better-c/)

- The code demonstrates various features introduced in the C23 standard, such as preprocessor directives and function attributes.
- It also covers binary literals, typeof operator, digit separators in numeric literals, constexpr keyword, static_assert keyword, and boolean arrays.
- The author shares their insights on the new features, discussing their potential advantages and influence on code development.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39081948)

- The article highlights improvements in the C23 programming language, including new features and compatibility issues with different compilers.
- Topics such as design patterns, trigraphs, and the search for a programming language that offers memory safety and interfaces well with C libraries are discussed.
- Potential alternative languages mentioned include Go, Rust, Zig, D, Nim, and Swift. The article also covers the differences between C and C++ and provides opinions on their strengths and drawbacks.

## [Learn Datalog: Interactive Tutorial for Database Query Language](https://www.learndatalogtoday.org/)

- "Learn Datalog Today" is an interactive tutorial that teaches the Datomic dialect of Datalog, a declarative database query language.
- The tutorial covers topics like querying, data patterns, transformation functions, and more.
- It was written for the Lisp In Summer Projects 2013 and is open for improvement suggestions on GitHub.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39080003)

- The discussion thread delves into the distinctions between Datalog and traditional datalog, highlighting its limitations and advantages.
- Implementations and applications of Datalog in various databases and query languages are covered, demonstrating its versatility.
- Alternative tools and languages for recursive reasoning and deductive queries are discussed, providing additional options for exploring these concepts.

## [Access National Park Service Data with the NPS Data API](https://www.nps.gov/subjects/digital/nps-data-api.htm)

- The National Park Service (NPS) Data API is available for developers to use NPS data in their projects such as apps, maps, and websites.
- The API offers various information on alerts, articles, campgrounds, events, lesson plans, news releases, parks, and visitor centers.
- Developers can access the API resources and register for an API key on the NPS Data API website, while the NPS API roadmap outlines future updates and enhancements to the API.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39085830)

- The U.S. National Park Service API is facing issues due to being understaffed and underfunded, leading to concerns among users.
- Users have found alternative methods to access the data, but debates arise regarding the cost and reliance on third-party vendors.
- Discussions cover topics such as paying for public data, access limitations, and the use of API keys for authentication and DDoS protection, along with the effectiveness and necessity of rate limiting and alternative authentication methods. Security concerns related to API keys are also mentioned.

## [Why Ugly Aesthetics are Trending in Fashion and Design](https://www.nplusonemag.com/issue-44/the-intellectual-situation/why-is-everything-so-ugly/)

- The article examines the growing trend of "ugly aesthetics" in fashion and design.
- It explores the possible reasons behind the popularity of this trend.
- The article raises questions about societal values and aesthetic preferences in contemporary culture.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39077622)

- The article examines the effects of LED lights on the nighttime ambiance of cities and the importance of preserving historical aesthetics.
- It explores trends and preferences in design and aesthetics, as well as the challenges in constructing unique and beautiful structures.
- Participants discuss various factors, such as the impact of lighting on sleep, personal aesthetics, economic considerations in construction, and the subjective nature of beauty.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Flipper Zero: A Versatile Multi-Tool for Hackers and Geeks" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Flipper%20Zero%3A%20A%20Versatile%20Multi-Tool%20for%20Hackers%20and%20Geeks&subheading=Monday%2C%20January%2022%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
