---
slug: '/2024/01/25'
---

# 2024-01-25

## [Zed Code Editor Goes Open Source, Emphasizes Collaboration](https://zed.dev/blog/zed-is-now-open-source)

- Zed, a code editor, has transitioned into an open-source project to enhance the product and engage with the programming community.
- Zed is now available on GitHub under copyleft and Apache 2 licenses, allowing developers to access and modify the code.
- The company plans to introduce Fireside Hacks, a real-time collaborative coding feature, while still maintaining a sustainable business model by offering integrated services and charging for private use of specific features. They encourage community contributions and provide a guide for getting involved.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39119835)

- The discussion covers various code editors, including Zed, Visual Studio Code (VSC), Emacs, and other alternatives.
- Users share experiences and suggestions on improving performance, collaboration, self-hosting chat servers, startup time, and package management.
- The conversation touches on licensing, compatibility with different operating systems, availability of collaborative editing options, and highlights the importance of real-time collaboration and efficiency for pair programming.

## [OpenAI Backtracks on Promise to Disclose Key Documents, Raises Concerns](https://www.wired.com/story/openai-scrapped-promise-disclose-key-documents/)

- OpenAI, a nonprofit AI research lab, has broken its promise to disclose key documents to the public, raising concerns about its transparency.
- The company was founded with the aim of involving society in AI development, but when requested for governing documents and financial statements, OpenAI refused to provide them.
- Critics argue that increased disclosure could enhance customer loyalty and regulatory trust, and access to these documents could provide insights into OpenAI's vulnerabilities, its relationship with stakeholders like Microsoft, and any revisions made to stabilize its corporate structure.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39121521)

- OpenAI is facing criticism for its lack of transparency and shift towards profitability, raising concerns about its commitment to benefiting humanity.
- Participants express disappointment and skepticism towards OpenAI's actions, questioning its integrity.
- The conversation highlights the implications of artificial general intelligence (AGI) development, the profit-driven focus of the tech industry, and the need for regulation and open discussions about AI.

## [Understanding Modern Fundraising: Introducing an Open-Source Startup Funding Simulator](https://www.fundingsimulator.com/)

- The author developed an open-source tool to help founders gain a better understanding of modern fundraising and the potential dilution they may experience.
- The tool simplifies the process of understanding startup funding by allowing users to add post-money safes, priced rounds, and employee options to see the impact on ownership.
- The author recognizes the complexities involved in startup funding, including different types of safes, options allocation, pro-rata rights, and MFN provisions, and welcomes feedback from users of the tool.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39120647)

- Discussions revolve around Fundingsimulator.com, a tool that assists founders in understanding fundraising complexities and potential dilution.
- Users provide feedback on the tool's features and suggest improvements.
- Other discussions include the challenges and benefits of startup funding, the relevance of VC funding at different stages of business growth, and the importance of skills and learning from successful founders. The ownership and financial complexities of startups and the potential advantages of having co-founders are also explored.

## [Alaska Airlines CEO: Loose bolts found on 737 Max planes](https://www.nbcnews.com/business/business-news/alaska-airlines-found-more-loose-bolts-boeing-737-max-9-ceo-says-rcna135316)

- Loose bolts were discovered on Alaska Airlines' Boeing 737 Max 9 planes during in-house inspections following a recent near-disaster incident.
- The Federal Aviation Administration has grounded all Boeing Max 9 planes and initiated a safety investigation, leading to flight cancellations and rearrangements for Alaska Airlines.
- Alaska Airlines CEO Ben Minicucci holds Boeing responsible for improving its quality control systems, and the company is sending its audit staff to inspect planes on the production line.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39115878)

- Alaska Airlines CEO has sent an audit team to investigate concerns about the quality control of Boeing's Max planes.
- The FAA is inspecting Boeing's quality process, with a specific focus on the door and bolts, as well as other potential issues in the quality system.
- There are debates about the FAA's deferential approach towards Boeing, the possibility of government acquisition of the company, the importance of independent audits and quality control, the suitability of an engineer as CEO, the role of unions in safety, and the trust placed in the FAA by Alaska Airlines and other airlines.

## [Creating an 8kB Animated Movie: Combining Storytelling and Animation with Technical Constraints](https://www.ctrl-alt-test.fr/2024/how-we-made-an-animated-movie-in-8kb)

- A team successfully created a real-time animation within the strict size constraints of 8kB.
- They utilized GLSL shaders, raymarching, and C++ coding to generate visuals, music, and animation.
- The project focused on conveying emotions and storytelling through small details, camera work, editing, and synchronization.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39121101)

- The discussion focuses on creating an animated movie using Creative Commons licenses and an 8kB limit.
- The conversation includes debates on the authenticity of a coding system and references a previous movie for inspiration.
- Topics such as time travel, AI, and challenges in compressing and animating 2D and 3D visuals are also discussed.

## [Kagi Community Reaches 20k Paying Members, Plans Merchandise Store Launch](https://blog.kagi.com/celebrating-20k)

- The Kagi community has reached a significant milestone of 20,000 paying members, with 1,500 families from around the world.
- To show gratitude, Kagi plans to launch a merchandise store and will offer a free Kagi T-shirt and sticker pack to their first 20,000 members.
- The t-shirts were carefully produced for quality and manufactured by a print shop in Serbia. Kagi sees this as an investment in their early adopters and a commitment to supporting their member community in the long run.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39124497)

- The focus of the discussion is on the search engine Kagi and its various features, advantages, and potential vulnerabilities to SEO manipulation.
- Users express satisfaction with prioritized search results and customization options provided by Kagi.
- Debate arises regarding the effectiveness of giving away t-shirts to paying members as a form of advertising, with differing opinions on its impact.

## [Ollama Releases Python and JavaScript Libraries for Seamless Integration](https://ollama.ai/blog/python-javascript-libraries)

- The Ollama Python and JavaScript libraries have been released, enabling seamless integration with new and existing applications.
- These libraries provide access to various features of the Ollama REST API, such as streaming, multi-modal capabilities, text completion, creating custom models, and utilizing a custom client.
- The libraries can be found on GitHub under the organization "ollama," with special recognition given to community members who have contributed libraries for different programming languages.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39125477)

- Ollama, a developer platform, has released libraries for Python and JavaScript.
- Users are discussing their experiences with Ollama, including customization options and the compatibility and performance of different models.
- Ollama is a local LLM server written in Go, designed for desktop use but not recommended for multiuser scenarios.

## [Hacking Xiaomi Air Purifier: Reset Filter Warning with RFID Chip Hack](https://unethical.info/2024/01/24/hacking-my-air-purifier/)

- The author recounts their experience with a Xiaomi air purifier that had an unremovable replace filter warning.
- They discovered a method to hack the RFID chip on the filter and reset it using a password generated from the tag's UID.
- Instructions are provided on how to reset the filter using an NFC-enabled mobile phone, along with a list of compatible devices and comments from successful readers who have tried it.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39115837)

- Users discuss frustrations with DRM (Digital Rights Management) in air purifiers and share experiences of hacking devices to bypass restrictions.
- Concerns are raised about the potential increase in counterfeit filters if this hack becomes popular.
- Alternative solutions, like using a differential pressure sensor instead of DRM, are suggested, and a plea is made for the repeal of the DMCA (Digital Millennium Copyright Act) and the right to repair for consumers.

## [The Power of Flow State in Coding](https://github.blog/2024-01-23-good-devex-increases-productivity/)

- Flow state is a mental state of complete focus and immersion in a task, such as coding.
- Being in a flow state can enhance productivity, creativity, and overall enjoyment of coding.
- The article provides three practical tips for entering and maintaining a flow state during coding sessions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39119141)

- The conversations emphasize the significance of developer experience (DevEx) in improving productivity.
- The challenges in measuring and enhancing DevEx are discussed, including the impact of ineffective DX on productivity and frustrations with tools and processes.
- Creating a cohesive and efficient working environment for developers is highlighted as essential for DevEx, along with the need for objective measures.

## [IRS Free File: File Your Taxes for Free with Trusted Partners](https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/irs-free-file-is-now-available-for-the-2024-filing-season)

- The IRS Free File program offers eligible taxpayers the opportunity to file their federal tax returns for free using software provided by trusted IRS partners.
- Eligibility for the program is determined by age, income, and state residency, with most taxpayers having an adjusted gross income limit of $79,000.
- Taxpayers with a higher income limit can also file for free using Fillable Forms, an option available through the program.
- The program ensures the security of taxpayer information, with partner companies prohibited from using it for any purposes other than tax preparation.
- Mobile access is available, enabling taxpayers to file their taxes using smartphones or tablets.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39119668)

- The discussion explores different aspects of tax filing, such as available options, government software, and online filing.
- It also touches on the role of tax preparation companies, deductions for landlords and software engineers, tax-exempt and tax-deferred accounts, and the complexity of the tax code.
- The conversation emphasizes the need for education, compares tax systems in other countries, and advocates for a simpler and more efficient tax filing system.

## [Reviving the ZX Spectrum: A Retro Raytracer with GO TO Statements](https://gabrielgambetta.com/zx-raytracer.html)

- The author was inspired by an article and developed a raytracer for the ZX Spectrum, an old computer from the 80s.
- The code contains GO TO statements, which might be concerning for certain readers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39118349)

- The conversation revolves around the limitations and capabilities of ZX Spectrum and Amstrad computers, including processors, programming languages, color palettes, and graphics loading processes.
- Users share their experiences and tips for optimizing code and rendering times.
- Alternative programming languages and compilers are discussed, along with the potential for improving performance by redoing exercises in assembly language.

## [Rise in Freight Train Robberies Targeting Amazon Packages Raises Concerns](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/23/magazine/train-robbery-amazon-packages.html)

- The rise of e-commerce has resulted in an increase in cargo theft from freight trains in the Los Angeles basin.
- Reported incidents of cargo theft have nearly doubled since 2019, targeting specific cars and coordinated for quick unloading of stolen goods.
- Cargo theft leads to significant annual losses estimated to be between $15 billion and $35 billion in the United States and around $50 billion globally.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39120773)

- The discussion covers a wide range of topics related to train robberies targeting Amazon packages, including the role of organized groups and opportunistic thieves.
- It explores the legality of taking found property, the effectiveness of rewards and punishments as deterrents, and the use of guns in society.
- It also delves into the lack of security measures in train systems, the impact of poverty and inequality on crime rates, and the correlation between homelessness and theft.

## [How Euler Revolutionized Mathematics](http://eulerarchive.maa.org/hedi/index.html)

- "How Euler Did It" is an online column by Ed Sandifer, exploring the works and ideas of mathematician Leonhard Euler.
- The articles cover various topics such as number theory, geography, and fluid mechanics.
- The collection is hosted by the Euler Archive in partnership with the Mathematical Association of America and is available in two volumes.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39118314)

- The conversation centers on the contributions and influence of mathematician Euler, including his partnerships and challenges with vision problems.
- It compares Euler to other mathematicians and discusses the accessibility and understandability of mathematics.
- The conversation explores the concept of exceptional individuals and the constraints of traditional education systems, along with the potential role of AI in education and the efficacy of AI tutoring.

## [Progress in Autoimmune Disease Therapies Spark Hope](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-024-00169-7)

- Scientists are making advancements in the development of therapies for autoimmune diseases like diabetes, lupus, and multiple sclerosis.
- Promising approaches include administering antigens to rogue cells, selectively eliminating problematic cells, and introducing engineered immune cells.
- Nanoparticles called navacims and liver-targeted antigen therapies are showing promise in turning off autoimmune responses and reversing symptoms of multiple sclerosis, respectively. Additionally, therapies involving chimeric autoantibody receptor T cells have shown significant improvement in patients with lupus and other disorders.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39116387)

- Scientists are exploring the use of antigens to train rogue cells to attack in hopes of curing autoimmune diseases, but concerns about effectiveness exist for everyone.
- Some individuals with autoimmune diseases are hopeful for more targeted treatments.
- Discussions surround the increased risk of infection and cancer with rheumatoid arthritis medications, preference for certain medications based on safety profiles and potential side effects, fasting as a potential treatment, other treatments for mast cell diseases and allergies, the effectiveness of current allergy treatments, and the validity of dietary interventions in treating autoimmune diseases.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Zed Code Editor Goes Open Source, Emphasizes Collaboration" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Zed%20Code%20Editor%20Goes%20Open%20Source%2C%20Emphasizes%20Collaboration&subheading=Thursday%2C%20January%2025%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
