---
slug: '/2024/01/27'
---

# 2024-01-27

## [Oasis: A Statically-Linked Linux System Emphasizing Simplicity and Customization](https://github.com/oasislinux/oasis)

- Oasis is a Linux-based operating system that resembles BSD and emphasizes simplicity and customization.
- It uses completely statically linked software, fast and reproducible builds, and minimal bootstrap dependencies.
- Oasis does not have a package manager but is compatible with pkgsrc and nix, and it uses BearSSL as its TLS and crypto library.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39142748)

- The discussion covers topics related to Linux systems, including the use of Oasis for creating immutable OS images and the benefits of static and dynamic linking in software development.
- Users explore dependency management, distributed compilation, and the challenges of GPU support.
- Different libraries, compilers, and alternative solutions like Docker and Nix are discussed, with varying opinions and suggestions on optimizing libraries and binaries, managing dependencies, and improving system stability.

## [ICJ Orders Israel to Prevent Genocide in Gaza, Fails to Order Ceasefire](https://apnews.com/article/israel-gaza-genocide-court-south-africa-27cf84e16082cde798395a95e9143c06)

- The United Nations' top court has ruled that Israel has a legal obligation to prevent death, destruction, and genocide in Gaza, but did not explicitly order an end to the ongoing military offensive.
- The court's ruling is seen as a criticism of Israel's conduct during the conflict and has intensified international pressure to stop the offensive.
- Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has rejected the ruling and pledged to continue the war, raising uncertainty about whether Israel will comply with the legally binding decision.
- The court also called on Hamas to release hostages and urged the international community to ensure Israel's compliance with the ruling.
- This ruling coincides with International Holocaust Remembrance Day.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39143043)

- The summary covers various discussions related to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, including civilian casualties, the actions of the Israeli military, and the role of the ICJ.
- Different perspectives are presented, including debates on casualty figures and the influence of external factors.
- The summary also explores the challenges in finding a resolution, the role of Hamas, and the potential for future attacks.

## [Exploiting a Security Vulnerability: Hacking Chess.com with XSS](https://skii.dev/rook-to-xss/)

- The author recounts their experience of discovering and exploiting a security vulnerability on Chess.com.
- The vulnerability allowed the author to automatically add themselves as a friend by accessing a specific URL.
- The author used the image upload function of a rich text editor to inject raw HTML code into their profile description and execute malicious JavaScript.
- They discuss the potential impact of a cross-site scripting attack and the challenges they faced with an OSRF exploit.
- The author provides suggestions on how to prevent similar vulnerabilities in the future.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39144906)

- A 17-year-old UK student successfully hacked into chess.com, sparking discussions on career opportunities and degree apprenticeships at Facebook.
- The incident raises concerns about HTML parsing challenges and potential XSS attacks on websites.
- The conversation also highlights the rivalry between chess.com and lichess.org and mixed opinions on the user experience across different platforms.

## [Rclone: A Versatile Tool for Managing Files on Cloud Storage](https://rclone.org/)

- Rclone is a command-line program for managing files on cloud storage with support for over 70 providers.
- It offers features like encryption, compression, and hashing, making it suitable for backup, data restoration, migration, and file syncing.
- Rclone preserves timestamps, verifies checksums, and can be used as a disk to access cloud storage, serving files over different protocols. It is open-source and has a helpful community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39151937)

- Users discuss the benefits and limitations of using Rclone, a cloud storage syncing tool, for file backup.
- Alternative syncing tools and encryption options for cloud storage are mentioned.
- The conversation also covers the limitations of the Google API, using Rclone with other backup tools, and the cost and trade-offs of different backup options like Amazon S3 Glacier and Backblaze.

## [The Explosive Growth of Batteries: Unlocking a Sustainable Future](https://rmi.org/the-rise-of-batteries-in-six-charts-and-not-too-many-numbers/)

- The demand for batteries is rapidly increasing, leading to a potential reduction in global fossil fuel demand by half.
- Battery sales have been doubling every two to three years, driven by the growth of electric cars.
- Improved battery quality and decreasing costs are enabling new applications across various sectors, including transportation and energy storage. Analysts have consistently underestimated the growth of batteries.
- Falling costs and increasing policy support are expected to further drive the adoption of batteries.
- Rapid deployment of batteries can facilitate the phaseout of fossil fuels in road transport, shipping, aviation, and the electricity sector, leading to significant carbon emission reductions.
- More efforts are needed to accelerate the transition to batteries for a faster and more sustainable future.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39144978)

- The discussion covers various topics related to energy generation, storage, and consumption, focusing on electric vehicles (EVs) and renewable energy sources.
- The conversation explores using batteries to address the timing disparity between peak demand and solar power generation and discusses the decline in rooftop solar applications in California.
- There is a debate on residential generation and storage of electricity, the need for improved EV charging infrastructure, and the challenges of implementing EVs in rural areas. The conversation also discusses the efficiency of EVs compared to petrol vehicles and the potential for hydrogen storage and electric-powered flights.

## [Untranslatable: Embracing the World's Linguistic Diversity](https://untranslatable.co/)

- Untranslatable is a multilingual online dictionary that allows users to contribute words and expressions from different languages and cultures.
- The project aims to provide more than just translations, offering insights into context and cultural significance.
- It welcomes entries in any language or dialect and is supported by moderators and user voting to maintain quality and accuracy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39144710)

## [Software Engineer's Journey to O-1 Visa: Quick Approval and Expert Tips](https://blog.awais.io/o1-visa/)

- The author, a software engineer turned CTO/co-founder, shares their experience obtaining an O-1 visa as a startup founder.
- They obtained their visa in just one week with premium processing and met four out of eight extraordinary ability criteria.
- The author advises consulting with an immigration lawyer before applying and provides recommendations for lawyers and resources for O-1 applicants.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39143958)

- The discussion focuses on the US immigration system and the difficulties faced by individuals applying for visas and green cards.
- There is debate surrounding visa requirements, the flaws in the immigration system, and the treatment of undocumented immigrants.
- The conversation also discusses the O-1 visa for individuals with extraordinary ability, work limitations, and the significance of highlighting achievements.

## [Introducing cssfact: A Lossy CSS Compressor for Reducing Redundancy in Code](https://blog.danieljanus.pl/2024/01/26/lossy-css-compression/)

- The blog post introduces a CSS compressor called cssfact that reduces CSS code by using binary matrix factorization.
- The technique of reducing CSS matrices helps in identifying redundancy in CSS codebases.
- cssfact aims to output a compressed version of CSS code with fewer rules.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39143768)

- The blog post introduces the concept of lossy compression for CSS and its potential advantages in reducing file size.
- The author proposes considering the frequency of rule usage to enhance the compression process.
- Commenters share additional tools and ideas related to CSS compression, and there are differing opinions on the practicality and usefulness of the concept. The post includes live examples and code for further experimentation.

## [Tool Generates Quiz Questions and Flashcards from Educational YouTube Videos](https://www.platoedu.org)

- The individual has developed a tool that generates quiz questions or flashcards from educational YouTube videos.
- The tool incorporates spaced repetition technique to enhance memory retention.
- The individual is seeking feedback on the tool and willing to provide additional information upon request.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39148336)

- The author has developed an app that generates quiz questions from educational YouTube videos and uses spaced repetition.
- Users find the app helpful and suggest adding features like community discussion and personal note-taking.
- There is a debate regarding the value of educational entertainment videos and a desire for more control over YouTube recommendations to prioritize actual education.

## [tinySA Wiki Updated with Info on tinySA Ultra: Small Spectrum Analyzer and Signal Generator](https://www.tinysa.org/wiki/)

- The tinySA Wiki has been updated to include information about the tinySA Ultra, which is a small spectrum analyzer and signal generator.
- The tinySA Ultra and tinySA4 are the same device, with the Ultra featuring a larger 4-inch screen and operating within broader frequency ranges.
- The tinySA Basic has a 2.8-inch screen and operates within specific frequency ranges, while the Ultra has additional features like a built-in LNA and microSD card slot.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39142560)

- The Ukrainian army is using the TinySA, a compact spectrum analyzer and signal generator, to detect Russian drones effectively.
- The conversation delves into spread spectrum technology and alternative approaches for detecting and intercepting drones.
- Various spectrum monitoring and analysis tools, such as the NanoVNA and TinySA, are discussed, along with suggestions for buying affordable oscilloscopes and measuring low frequencies and identifying radio frequency interference sources.

## [PinePhone: A Mixed Bag of Performance and Phone Issues, According to Review](https://yaky.dev/2024-01-25-pinephone-post-daily-driver-review/)

- The PinePhone is a mobile Linux device with good performance but has issues with phone capabilities.
- It has standard features and a decent display, but is difficult to see in bright light and has average battery life.
- The Phosh and SXMO desktop environments are discussed, each with their own strengths and weaknesses.
- There are limitations with editing YAML files and using wvkbd for terminal use.
- Users have reported issues with the modem, especially with VoLTE, resulting in crashes and difficulties with calls.
- Different firmware and operating system versions have been tried, but problems persist.
- The camera works but has slow post-processing and limited video shooting capabilities.
- Offline navigation apps are also limited.
- There are challenges with Spotify playback on mobile Linux clients and the recommended usage of Firefox ESR as the default browser.
- Overall, the PinePhone is practical for daily tasks but has limitations as a phone.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39145701)

- Users discuss their experiences with mobile devices running on Linux, including the PinePhone, Librem 5, and Ubuntu Touch, focusing on areas like software performance, hardware limitations, and user interfaces.
- The challenges of creating affordable and fully open-source devices are highlighted, as well as concerns about their reliability and mainstream adoption.
- Discussions also cover topics such as file sharing, photo syncing, root access on Android devices, and the cost and availability of SMS services.

## [Google TPU v5p Outperforms Nvidia H100 for AI Workloads](https://www.techradar.com/pro/google-is-rapidly-turning-into-a-formidable-opponent-to-bff-nvidia-the-tpu-v5p-ai-chip-powering-its-hypercomputer-is-faster-and-has-more-memory-and-bandwidth-than-ever-before-beating-even-the-mighty-h100)

- Google has released the TPU v5p, an upgraded version of its tensor processing unit AI chip, with enhanced speed, memory, and bandwidth compared to its predecessor.
- The TPU v5p is being utilized in Google's AI Hypercomputer and boasts up to 2.8 times faster training for large language models.
- Google's custom TPUs are employed internally, and the new TPU v5p is considered a strong competitor to Nvidia's H100 GPU for AI tasks, although further benchmarking is necessary to establish a precise performance comparison.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39148544)

- The discussion covers Google's TPU hardware and Nvidia's GPUs, highlighting their significance in AI.
- The competition between frameworks like PyTorch and CUDA is explored, emphasizing the importance of hardware.
- The potential of TPUs in machine learning and the challenges and limitations of using specialized hardware for AI tasks are discussed.

## [Pixel Owners Experience Issues After January 2024 Google Play Update](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/google/google-pixel-phones-unusable-after-january-2024-system-update/)

- Google Pixel smartphone owners have been encountering various issues after a system update in January 2024, including problems with accessing internal storage, using the camera, taking screenshots, and opening apps.
- Some users have attempted to resolve the issues by factory resetting their devices, but this has led to data loss.
- Google is aware of the problem and is currently investigating, raising concerns about the company's quality assurance and testing protocols. The information provided in the article includes rules from online forums, details from websites, and JavaScript code related to a website called BleepingComputer.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39144740)

- Pixel phone users have encountered problems after installing the January 2024 Google Play update, specifically storage issues.
- Speculation suggests that hardware, rather than the update, may be the cause of these problems.
- Dissatisfaction with Google and Apple is expressed, with some users considering switching brands. There are also reports of pairing issues between Garmin watches and Pixel phones, leading to suspicions of intentional problems caused by Google.
- The discussion also touches on the balance between convenience and security in technology and concerns about software quality assurance.
- The overall theme of the conversation is frustration with tech companies and their software updates.

## [Microsoft Teams outage causing connection issues, login problems, and message delays](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/microsoft/microsoft-teams-outage-causes-connection-issues-message-delays/)

- Microsoft is investigating a widespread outage impacting users of its Teams communication platform, causing connectivity issues, login difficulties, and message delays.
- The company is actively working to fix the problem and has observed signs of improvement after implementing a failover in the EMEA region.
- The post also includes code snippets demonstrating JavaScript functions and event handlers for controlling webpage behavior, such as printing, scrolling, dropdown menus, and popups.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39146385)

- Users are frustrated with Microsoft Teams due to connection problems, message delays, and glitches.
- Complaints include slow loading times, crashes, and lack of features compared to alternatives like Slack.
- Some users have become accustomed to the poor performance of Teams despite ongoing issues and outages.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Oasis: A Statically-Linked Linux System Emphasizing Simplicity and Customization" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Oasis%3A%20A%20Statically-Linked%20Linux%20System%20Emphasizing%20Simplicity%20and%20Customization&subheading=Saturday%2C%20January%2027%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
