---
slug: '/2024/01/28'
---

# 2024-01-28

## [Disney Unleashes HoloTile Floor for Seamless Shared VR Experience](https://www.ign.com/articles/disney-unveils-the-holotile-floor-inching-us-closer-to-a-real-life-holodeck)

- Disney has developed a technology called the HoloTile floor, which is a multi-person, omni-directional treadmill floor for enhancing the VR experience.
- The HoloTile floor allows multiple people to have a shared VR experience and walk in any direction without colliding.
- This technology has potential applications beyond VR, including theatrical stages, and offers a glimpse into the future of immersive entertainment.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39156444)

- Disney has introduced the HoloTile floor, a novel technology that employs ultrasonic tiles to regulate friction and movement.
- The HoloTile floor enables controlled direction of movement, although there are reservations about its safety and durability.
- Speculation arises among viewers that the tiles may spin rather than rotate, raising questions about the reliability of the technology.
- While the HoloTile floor presents an innovative approach to friction control, there are ongoing discussions regarding its practicality, effectiveness, and potential limitations in virtual reality applications.

## [Creating Your Own ChatGPT-like Language Model: A Step-by-Step Guide](https://github.com/rasbt/LLMs-from-scratch)

- "Build a Large Language Model (From Scratch)" is a book that provides a step-by-step guide for creating your own language model.
- The book includes clear explanations, diagrams, and examples to help readers understand each stage of the process.
- It follows a similar approach to building models like ChatGPT.
- The accompanying code and supplementary materials can be accessed on the GitHub repository.
- Topics covered in the book include understanding large language models, working with text data, coding attention mechanisms, implementing a GPT model, pretraining on unlabeled data, finetuning for text classification, finetuning with human feedback, using large language models in practice, and an introduction to PyTorch.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39156778)

- The author is writing a comprehensive guide and book on building a ChatGPT-like Language Model (LLM) from scratch, aiming to educate and demystify LLMs while providing practical assistance to implement customized models.
- While training an LLM from scratch may not be financially feasible for most, the author recommends using frameworks like HF transformers or axolotl. However, a well-funded company has demonstrated that training from scratch is possible.
- The book covers pretraining, finetuning, and loading pretrained weights, and readers are interested in reinforcement learning advice. The discussion also includes recommendations for RL, neural networks, and transformers resources.
- The author defends the cost of the book, mentions available coupons, and welcomes feedback through the Manning Forum or GitHub.
- The book is expected to be 400-500 pages long, and there is a video tutorial for a shorter introduction. The suitability of the video tutorial for beginners is debated, but the creator assures that more chapters are in progress.

## [Wrecked Airplane Doesn't Create Insider Trading: Law Stack Exchange Users Discuss Boeing Puts](https://law.stackexchange.com/questions/98706/is-it-insider-trading-if-i-bought-boeing-puts-while-i-am-inside-the-wrecked-airp)

- Users on the Law Stack Exchange platform discuss whether buying Boeing put options during a plane crash would be considered insider trading.
- The conversation examines the definition of insider trading and the potential involvement of the SEC.
- Ultimately, it is concluded that being inside a crashed airplane does not qualify as insider information, and therefore insider trading laws would not apply. Seeking legal advice and the educational aspect of the platform are highlighted.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39157797)

- The discussion focuses on the definition and legality of insider trading, specifically regarding trading stocks using non-public information.
- Participants debate whether certain actions, like observing product issues or experiencing software failures, should be considered insider trading.
- The conversation also covers confidentiality obligations, fiduciary relationships, and different regulations across countries, highlighting the complexity and subjective nature of defining insider trading.

## [The End of Square Checkboxes: Evolution and Future of User Controls](https://tonsky.me/blog/checkbox/)

- Checkboxes in different operating systems have traditionally been square, while radio buttons have been round.
- With the web and CSS, there has been a trend of reinventing and redesigning these controls, leading to the use of round checkboxes and checkboxes with checkmarks.
- Apple has recently introduced round checkboxes in their new visionOS, deviating from the traditional square convention. The author speculates that square checkboxes may be replaced by toggles in 2024.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39161339)

- The discussion explores multiple aspects of user interface design, such as the use of round checkboxes and the confusion caused by unclear toggle buttons.
- It highlights the influence of Apple's design choices and the challenges faced by older individuals in navigating modern UI designs.
- The debate between radio buttons and checkboxes is discussed, along with the potential for innovation in UI design while still adhering to established conventions.

## [Sxmo: The Minimalist Linux Environment for Mobile Devices with Touch and SSH Support](https://sxmo.org/)

- Sxmo is a minimalist environment for Linux mobile devices with a user-friendly menu-driven interface and support for touch and gesture controls.
- Users can SSH into their phone and use it like any other Alpine Linux machine, making it convenient for remote use.
- The platform is highly customizable and scriptable, allowing users to launch scripts for various actions and bind them to gestures or physical buttons. It runs on traditional Linux distributions and supports FOSS apps.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39155103)

- The SXMO operating system is being discussed, focusing on its design, functionality, and compatibility with the PinePhone.
- Users have shared their experiences and opinions, expressing both positive and negative views on SXMO.
- Discussions cover topics such as design flaws, bugs, features, customization options, alternative ROMs, banking app workarounds, the usefulness of a tiling window manager on a phone, upcoming events, Python and Qt development, and the absence of a pin/password option for unlocking the device.

## [Vulnerable GitLab Instances Expose 5.3K Servers to Account Takeover](https://www.scmagazine.com/news/gitlab-password-reset-bug-leaves-more-than-5-3k-servers-up-for-grabs)

- Over 5,300 servers have not applied a crucial patch in GitLab, leaving developers' accounts vulnerable to remote takeover.
- A bug in GitLab allows attackers to reset passwords and receive the reset link on their own email without user interaction.
- Security updates have been released, but a significant number of GitLab instances are still susceptible to this vulnerability. Users are advised to check for signs of exploitation in their logs and enable two-factor authentication.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39159002)

- A password reset bug in GitLab has left over 5.3K servers vulnerable, raising concerns about account security and unauthorized access
- The choice of programming languages and best practices are being discussed to minimize bugs and vulnerabilities in future projects
- Criticisms are raised regarding the security team and handling of account security features, as well as discussions about engineering culture and the use of strong parameters in Ruby on Rails

## [Hackers breach Microsoft network using test account with admin privileges](https://arstechnica.com/security/2024/01/in-major-gaffe-hacked-microsoft-test-account-was-assigned-admin-privileges/)

- Hackers infiltrated Microsoft's network and accessed the email accounts of top executives by exploiting an old test account with admin privileges.
- The attackers utilized a technique called password spraying to take advantage of a weak credential for logging into the test account.
- They further manipulated the OAuth authorization protocol to create a malicious app and grant it access to all email addresses on Microsoft's Office 365 email service, exposing a significant configuration mistake.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39157888)

- The articles and discussions highlight the security risks and concerns associated with access privileges and permissions in Microsoft's test and production environments.
- Better isolation, access control measures, security audits, and employee training are recommended to prevent unauthorized access and potential security breaches.
- Emphasis is placed on the importance of implementing robust security measures to protect sensitive data.

## [The Sporkful's Dan Pashman Invents Cascatelli Pasta for Optimal Sauce Adherence and Forkability](https://kottke.org/21/03/the-invention-of-a-new-pasta-shape)

- Dan Pashman, host of The Sporkful podcast, has developed a new pasta shape called cascatelli, designed to enhance sauce adhesion and eating experience.
- The shape is now available for purchase from Sfoglini.
- The pasta has gained popularity and is currently sold out, only leaving 5-lb bulk bags in stock.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39159263)

- A new pasta shape has been invented in 2021, but it has received mixed reviews.
- Critics say the pasta takes too long to cook, has undercooked sections, and breaks off at the joints.
- There are suspicions that positive reviews on the inventor's website may be cherry-picked or forged.

## [Remote Work Prevails: Don't Be Gaslighted](https://www.hottakes.space/p/remote-work-won-dont-let-anyone-gaslight)

- Remote work has become the new norm and will continue to be prevalent, despite some individuals resisting the change.
- Data shows that a significant number of employees in the US currently work remotely and prefer to continue doing so.
- Companies and managers who enforce return-to-office mandates are criticized for impeding employee satisfaction and productivity.
- Arguments made by commercial real estate owners against remote work are dismissed, as the author believes the pandemic has accelerated the inevitable future of remote work.
- The author warns of potential layoffs disguised as return-to-office initiatives and advises caution for investors, employees, and customers.
- Remote work is asserted as the victorious model, and readers are encouraged to be aware of gaslighting attempts to convince them otherwise.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39156987)

- The conversation highlights the advantages of remote work, such as time-saving and flexibility, but also acknowledges its challenges, including isolation and limited growth opportunities.
- The impact of remote work on social interactions, relationships with colleagues, and company culture is discussed, raising questions about the long-term effects on the class of 2020-2022 and the future of commercial real estate.
- The conversation explores both the benefits and drawbacks of remote work for businesses and touches on concerns about bias in media discussions and the impact of remote work on productivity and employee performance. Opinions on the effectiveness and future of remote work vary.

## [MIT researchers develop rapid liquid metal printing for large-scale aluminum parts](https://news.mit.edu/2024/researchers-demonstrate-rapid-3d-printing-liquid-metal-0125)

- MIT researchers have developed liquid metal printing (LMP), a technique that enables rapid production of large-scale aluminum parts, including furniture.
- LMP involves depositing molten aluminum onto a bed of small glass beads, resulting in quick hardening into a 3D structure. It is at least 10 times faster than other metal additive manufacturing processes.
- LMP prioritizes speed and scale over resolution. The technique has potential applications in architecture, construction, industrial design, rapid prototyping with recycled metal, and can be combined with other high-resolution processes and materials to create functional furniture.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39156463)

- MIT researchers have shown that liquid metal can be 3D printed at a fast pace, providing potential applications in prototyping and non-structural designs.
- While parts made using this method may still need milling and machining, the ability to print with liquid metal opens up possibilities for faster and more efficient fabrication facilities.
- The process involves printing molten metal inside glass beads to achieve the desired shape, showcasing advancements in 3D printing technology.

## [Pentagon Ex-UFO Chief: Government Conspiracy Theorists Drive Wasteful Spending](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2024/jan/27/sean-kirkpatrick-pentagon-ufo-conspiracy-theory-myths)

- Former Pentagon chief investigator Sean Kirkpatrick accuses conspiracy theorists within the US government of spreading myths about UFOs and wasting resources on investigations.
- Kirkpatrick claims that a group of government workers are promoting unsubstantiated stories and influencing lawmakers to support secret UFO research programs.
- He expresses concern about lawmakers making decisions based on conspiracy-driven thinking and sensationalism, stating that many UFO sightings have logical explanations but some people refuse to accept scientific explanations due to their belief in aliens.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39156388)

- The summary covers a range of topics including UFOs, alien encounters, conspiracy theories, and government involvement.
- It mentions the influence of conspiracy theorists within the government on spending related to UFO investigations.
- Discussions explore the human-scale nature of UFO mythology, the potential inspiration for sightings from experimental aircraft, and the possibility of advanced hominids on Earth pretending to be extraterrestrial beings.
- The feasibility of sending robotic probes to explore space is also discussed.
- Skepticism and debate surround the existence of aliens, the credibility of witnesses, and the lack of concrete evidence.
- Government secrecy, transparency, and the role of organizations like AATIP in shaping the narrative about UFOs and extraterrestrial existence are also examined.

## [Re-Implementation of 65C02 CPU in FPGA: 100MHz 65F02 Project on Hold](https://www.e-basteln.de/computing/65f02/65f02/)

- The 65F02 is a re-implementation of the 65C02 CPU developed by the author and implemented in an FPGA.
- The FPGA board can be plugged into the CPU socket of 6502 and 65C02-based computers, providing a clock rate of 100 MHz and storing up to 16 different memory maps.
- The 65F02 has been successfully tested in Mephisto chess computers, Apple II, and Commodore PET/CBM computers, but the project is currently on hold due to global electronics supply bottlenecks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39160291)

- The article discusses the challenges and opportunities of adding cache to a system, exploring different types of memory banks.
- It explores the potential of creating a computer system that mimics an 80-column display by utilizing higher memory configurations.
- The benefits of using 8-bit microprocessors for real-time tasks and the potential for optimizing computer operations are discussed, along with techniques to reduce power consumption. The article also touches on nostalgia for older computers and the excitement of faster processors. Additionally, performance improvement techniques for specific systems, like Applesoft and the Quad Core demo, are mentioned.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Disney Unleashes HoloTile Floor for Seamless Shared VR Experience" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Disney%20Unleashes%20HoloTile%20Floor%20for%20Seamless%20Shared%20VR%20Experience&subheading=Sunday%2C%20January%2028%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
