---
slug: '/2024/01/29'
---

# 2024-01-29

## [Unveiling the Dangers of Self-Hosting: Analyzing Security Vulnerabilities and Targeted Attacks](https://nishtahir.com/i-looked-through-attacks-in-my-access-logs-heres-what-i-found/)


### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39165711)

- The conversation covers various cybersecurity measures to protect servers and prevent attacks, such as monitoring Certificate Transparency logs and securing SSH ports.
- It emphasizes the importance of staying updated on vulnerabilities, following best practices, and implementing multi-layered security.
- The effectiveness of IP blocking, the pros and cons of using Cloudflare, and the risks of running vulnerable servers are also discussed. Overall, the discussion highlights the need for proactive and comprehensive security measures.

## [AI-powered GitHub Copilot linked to decline in code quality, raises concerns over long-term impact](https://visualstudiomagazine.com/articles/2024/01/25/copilot-research.aspx)

- Research from GitClear reveals concerning trends in software development related to the use of AI-powered GitHub Copilot.
- The study found that relying on Copilot is associated with an increase in "mistake code" and a decrease in code refactoring and reuse, raising concerns about code maintainability.
- The research also highlights the prevalence of copy/pasted code, which can lead to future maintenance issues.
- These findings contradict previous studies that have shown increased productivity and developer satisfaction with Copilot.
- The report raises questions about the long-term impact of AI on code quality and who should take responsibility for addressing these issues.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39168105)

- The use of AI tools like GitHub Copilot and ChatGPT in programming is generating discussion.
- Concerns are raised regarding the impact on code quality, especially for non-trivial and SQL-related tasks.
- The debate includes polarized views on AI, resistance to nuanced discussions about its abilities, and reliance on AI for coding.

## ["I Need To Grow Away From These Roots": Custom Music and Light Effects with Raspberry Pi and Arduino](https://www.vitling.xyz/i-need-to-grow-away-from-these-roots/)

- "I Need To Grow Away From These Roots" is a project by vitling and David Whiting that focuses on creating custom programs for Raspberry Pi and Arduino boards.
- The project involves generating and controlling music and light effects using the custom programs.
- The program generates chords, selects random notes to play, and illuminates LED strips with corresponding colors. The project also includes a wooden housing with wiring and audio connections.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39168986)

- The discussion touches on a range of music and programming topics, such as the vitling.xyz website, using a 303 synthesizer, autoplaying videos, learning music theory, coding music with Sonic Pi, and a project involving chords and inversions.
- There is also mention of a video installation, comparisons to Plastikman's music, server challenges, and the cost of building and programming an LED strip with Arduino.

## [Eagle 7B: Open-source AI Model Outperforms Transformers in Multi-lingual Benchmarks](https://blog.rwkv.com/p/eagle-7b-soaring-past-transformers)

- The RWKV open-source architecture has unveiled a new model named Eagle 7B, boasting an impressive 7.52B parameters and built on the RWKV-v5 architecture.
- Trained on a vast amount of data, consisting of 1.1 trillion tokens in over 100 languages, Eagle 7B surpasses all other 7B class models in multi-lingual benchmarks.
- Under the Apache 2.0 license, this model can be freely utilized for personal or commercial purposes without any limitations. The RWKV team aims to democratize AI, ensuring accessibility for people worldwide, and plans to extend language support in the future.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39172837)

- The article explores the progress and limitations of alternative LLM architectures, with a focus on the importance of context size and the suggestion to explore a larger size of ~1M tokens.
- The capabilities and limitations of the RWKV model, a linear attention architecture, are discussed, highlighting its perfect token recall but restricted ability to remember past tokens.
- The importance of language data in AI development and its role in human intelligence is emphasized, along with discussions on the RWKV-v5 Eagle 7B model, potential MoE models, tokenization speed, and concerns about potential censorship of models.

## [Bartkira: The Epic Fusion of The Simpsons and Akira](http://www.bartkira.com)

- Bartkira.com is a website featuring the art project "BARTKIRA," a fusion of The Simpsons and Akira.
- The project includes six volumes of artwork created by over 500 international artists.
- Users can read each volume on the website and find additional information in the FAQ section, as well as links to their Tumblr and Twitter accounts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39165080)

- "Bartkira: The Simpsons and Akira" is a fan project that combines elements from both "The Simpsons" and "Akira" into a reimagined story.
- Various artists contribute to the project, depicting scenes and characters in their own art styles.
- The project has handled copyright challenges by donating profits to charity and has not faced any cease and desist orders so far, showcasing the creativity and passion of fan artists despite the potential risks involved.

## [Candle-flicker LEDs with built-in MCUs mimic real flames, helping to conserve power](https://cpldcpu.wordpress.com/2024/01/14/revisiting-candle-flicker-leds-now-with-integrated-timer/)

- The author explores a candle-flicker LED with an integrated timer, finding a microcontroller inside that resembles a PIC derivative.
- The LED operates in PWM mode at a frequency of 125Hz, driven by the microcontroller at 1MHz.
- The author suggests that using a microcontroller with sleep mode could reduce the LED's current consumption and increase battery life, highlighting the growing use of inexpensive microcontrollers in low-cost electronics like candle-flame LEDs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39169048)

- The discussion covers a wide range of topics including creating realistic candle flickering effects with LEDs, the development and limitations of microcomputers, and the tools and equipment necessary for working with microcontrollers.
- Other topics include the need for standardized modular gadgets, the environmental impact of lithium batteries, and the use and disposal of vapes and EV batteries.
- Software and programming topics, such as the difference between microprocessors and microcontrollers, are also discussed.

## [Antarctic fungi thrive in Martian conditions, promising for future missions.](https://www.agenciasinc.es/en/News/Antarctic-fungi-survive-Martian-conditions-on-the-International-Space-Station)

- Fungi from Antarctica's McMurdo Dry Valleys have demonstrated the ability to survive in conditions resembling those on Mars.
- The fungi maintained stable DNA and preserved over 60% of their cells after being sent to the International Space Station for 18 months.
- This research offers essential insights for future Mars missions focused on finding signs of life, and lichens from Spain and Austria also exhibited heightened metabolic activity under Martian conditions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39168900)

- Fungi from Antarctica have been found to survive in conditions that mimic those on Mars, raising questions about the potential for life on other planets.
- This research leads to discussions about seeding other planets with Earth life forms, known as panspermia, and the adaptability of life in space.
- The study has implications for planetary protection and our understanding of the possibility of life on other planets.

## [Sudo project strengthens security against Rowhammer attacks with code modifications](https://github.com/sudo-project/sudo/commit/7873f8334c8d31031f8cfa83bd97ac6029309e4f)

- The sudo project has implemented updates to improve security against ROWHAMMER attacks.
- These changes involve modifying variables and adding tests for expected values.
- The updates were prompted by a report from researchers at Worcester Polytechnic Institute and primarily impact files related to authentication, session management, and conditional statements.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39165342)

- The discussion covers a range of topics related to computer vulnerabilities and programming optimizations.
- Some of the topics discussed include the vulnerability of the sudo program to Rowhammer attacks and the optimizations of binary codes.
- Other topics include the use of Minecraft and Source Engine game server hosts, mitigations of Rowhammer attacks in DRAM chips, the importance of ECC memory, alternatives to sudo like doas, the use and security implications of enum values in programming languages, and the occurrence of bit flips in data decompression.

## [GitHub Faces Surge in Spam; Users Call for Improved Reporting and Content Moderation](https://djanes.xyz/spam-on-github-is-getting-crazy-these-days/)

- GitHub is facing a surge in spam activity, as scammers post fraudulent content, tag multiple users, and quickly delete the posts.
- The spam comments often involve cryptocurrency-related scams and have become more widespread in recent months.
- Users are struggling to report the spam messages since they are already removed, making it challenging to address the issue effectively.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39170622)

- Users discuss fraudulent practices, spam, and content moderation issues on popular online platforms like eBay, Amazon, GitHub, and Twitter.
- Negative experiences with unethical sellers, counterfeit goods, and return/refund difficulties are shared.
- Suggestions for stricter regulations, improved buyer protection, reputation systems, filtering methods, and language analysis models are proposed. Concerns are raised about Twitter's failure to address spam effectively due to inadequate staff.

## [GTK Introduces New Renderers "ngl" and "vulkan" for Improved Features and Correctness](https://blog.gtk.org/2024/01/28/new-renderers-for-gtk/)

- GTK has introduced two new renderers, "ngl" and "vulkan," with the same source code for GL and Vulkan support, making maintenance and updates easier.
- The new renderers come with advanced features like antialiasing, fractional scaling, gradients, and dmabufs support.
- Although the new renderers are not currently faster than the old GL renderer, they offer improved features and correctness, laying the foundation for future plans such as better color handling, GPU path rendering, and off-the-main-thread rendering. Users are encouraged to try them out and provide feedback.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39172377)

- The article explores the development of new renderers for GTK, with a focus on the Broadway HTML renderer.
- The Broadway renderer enables GTK apps to be shown in a browser using HTML and CSS, garnering praise for its craftsmanship.
- Commenters discuss the limitations of the Broadway backend and make comparisons to other technologies like QML and Electron. The article also mentions potential improvements to GTK, such as an ANSI text renderer and pixel-perfect fractional scaling.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Unveiling the Dangers of Self-Hosting: Analyzing Security Vulnerabilities and Targeted Attacks" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Unveiling%20the%20Dangers%20of%20Self-Hosting%3A%20Analyzing%20Security%20Vulnerabilities%20and%20Targeted%20Attacks&subheading=Monday%2C%20January%2029%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
