---
slug: '/2024/01/30'
---

# 2024-01-30

## [Creating a C Program using libcurl with --libcurl Option](https://everything.curl.dev/libcurl/libcurl)

- The --libcurl command-line option in curl allows users to create a C program that utilizes libcurl for performing transfers.
- The generated program serves as a reference for utilizing libcurl options and adding additional arguments.
- While the program code includes various curl_easy_setopt options, some options may require manual implementation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39175873)

- The discussion focuses on the advantages of using the curl command compared to raw HTTP and alternatives to online services.
- Participants talk about the "Copy as cURL" feature and tools for converting cURL commands, as well as viewing and modifying code.
- The conversation also covers the use of Invoke-WebRequest in PowerShell, limitations of the UNIX/POSIX model, libcurl capabilities, and the preference for deterministic tools over AI.

## [Meta AI Unveils Code Llama 70B: A More Efficient Code Generator](https://twitter.com/AIatMeta/status/1752013879532782075)

- The company has launched Code Llama 70B, an improved version of their code generator.
- The new models are offered under the same licensing terms as previous versions.
- The release aims to enhance the efficiency of the code generation process.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39178886)

- The discussion covers various topics related to AI models, hardware requirements, open source licensing, and Meta's strategies.
- It explores the use of Ollama as an autocomplete provider, the availability of local models, hardware choices for running large models, and the benefits of quantization in improving efficiency.
- Discussions also touch on Meta's decision to open source models, its impact on competition, and the potential motives behind it, as well as the broader implications of AI models, market value of companies, and concerns about data privacy.

## [Introducing Boardzilla: A Framework for Web-Based Board Games](https://www.boardzilla.io/)

- Boardzilla is a new framework designed for developing web-based board games, created out of dissatisfaction with existing tools.
- The framework simplifies the development process by allowing developers to use the same code for both the client and server, removing concerns about state management, persistence, and networking.
- Although still a work in progress, Boardzilla has released developer documentation and sample games on Github, actively adding features and games, and welcomes feedback from users.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39180953)

- Boardzilla is a web-based framework that streamlines the creation of board games, and user feedback is being used to make improvements.
- User suggestions include prioritizing examples and documentation on the landing page and providing a step-by-step tutorial.
- Discussions also cover topics such as incorporating Python on the server side, utilizing Lua in game development, and concerns regarding using React for game development. Additionally, trademark conflicts, bug reports, and alternative game development platforms are being discussed.
- Developers are considering implementing security measures against cheating and rage quitting, adding support for AI bots, and exploring self-hosting options.
- There is also a conversation about selecting the appropriate software license, particularly the AGPLv3 and Commons Clause licenses.

## [Florida House approves bill banning social media for kids <16](https://abcnews.go.com/GMA/Family/florida-house-representatives-approves-bill-ban-social-media/story?id=106672586)

- The Florida House of Representatives has passed a bill that would prohibit children under 16 from using most social media platforms, irrespective of parental consent.
- Advocates argue that social media is detrimental to children, while opponents claim it violates both First Amendment rights and parental autonomy.
- This development arises amidst ongoing discussions among social media companies, parents, lawmakers, and healthcare providers on how to address the effects of social media on children's mental well-being.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39175883)

- The conversation delves into the regulation of social media, age verification systems, privacy concerns, government control, and the impact of internet usage on children.
- Alternative solutions like zero-knowledge proofs and reputation systems are discussed, alongside debates on the pros and cons of government intervention.
- The conversation highlights the difficulties of striking a balance between freedom of speech, protecting minors, and safeguarding privacy in the digital era. It also touches on the detrimental effects of social media on mental health and the possible necessity of better education on responsible online conduct.

## [New cases of Alzheimer's linked to outdated medical procedure](https://www.statnews.com/2024/01/29/first-transmitted-alzheimers-disease-cases-growth-hormone-cadavers/)

- Scientists have discovered the first cases of transmitted Alzheimer's disease, linked to a past medical procedure involving cadaver-derived growth hormone.
- Patients who received the hormone as children developed signs of Alzheimer's disease decades later.
- The hormone transplant introduced the beta-amyloid protein into the patients' brains, causing disease-causing plaques and suggesting a prion-like transmission mechanism.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39183063)

- The discussions delve into various topics such as disease transmission during medical procedures, concerns about blood transfusions, and the use of biological materials from other individuals.
- There is an exploration of the connection between prion diseases and neurodegenerative disorders like Alzheimer's and Parkinson's.
- The discussions also analyze the causes and transmission of Alzheimer's disease, emphasizing the need for additional research to comprehensively address the risks associated with certain medical practices.

## [Building and Installing Oxide Helios: A High-Performing Distribution of Illumos](https://github.com/oxidecomputer/helios)

- The text provides instructions for building and installing the Oxide Helios operating system, as well as modifying and updating its packages.
- It mentions the use of diagnostic ROM files.
- All components of Oxide Helios are licensed under the Mozilla Public License Version 2.0.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39178521)

- The discussion on Hacker News revolves around Oxide, an Illumos distribution and hardware company, and its release of Helios, which is compared to SmartOS.
- Users express enthusiasm for Oxide's customized hardware and infrastructure solutions for on-premise servers, but raise concerns about pricing and the need for a comprehensive on-premises cloud experience.
- The conversation expands to topics such as the challenges in attracting developers to Illumos, sustaining maintenance, the advantages of using SmartOS, vendor integration and certification, virtual machines and containers, compatibility with different hardware platforms, and the importance of open-source firmware. Collaboration with Project X developers and the desire for an open-source hardware platform are also mentioned.

## [New Algorithm for Faster Integer Linear Programming](https://www.quantamagazine.org/researchers-approach-new-speed-limit-for-seminal-problem-20240129/)

- Researchers have created a groundbreaking algorithm that can solve integer linear programming problems much faster than previous methods.
- The algorithm is a significant improvement and brings the runtime close to the theoretical ideal, but it is not yet practical to use in existing programs due to their complexity.
- This development is a major advancement in the field and has the potential for future improvements.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39185198)

- Researchers have developed a faster approach for performing integer linear programming, but its real-world application and impact are uncertain due to other factors like heuristics and strategies that also influence solver performance.
- The discussion revolves around the challenges and potential advantages of integrating new techniques into existing algorithms, including the usage of lattice-based algorithms, branch-and-bound methods, and linear programming to solve complex problems.
- The primary focus is on optimization and linear programming techniques, their limitations, and their potential for practical applications.

## [Amazon and iRobot's $1.7 billion acquisition deal canceled due to regulatory issues](https://www.cnbc.com/2024/01/29/amazon-terminates-irobot-deal-vacuum-maker-to-lay-off-31percent-of-staff.html)

- The planned acquisition deal between Amazon and iRobot has been cancelled due to a lack of regulatory approval.
- iRobot will lay off around 350 employees, which accounts for 31% of its staff, and its CEO will step down.
- The European Commission expressed concerns about the acquisition potentially impacting competition in the robot vacuum cleaner market.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39176297)

- The discussion delves into a range of topics including the aborted acquisition of iRobot by Amazon and the implications of saving failing companies.
- The conversation also addresses the reputation of Chinese manufacturers, challenges in the tech industry, and the effects of acquisitions.
- Additionally, the discussion highlights concerns related to trust in corporations and government agencies, integration issues between tech companies, the consequences of company consolidation, and the potential risks of monopolistic practices.

## [WhisperFusion: Enhanced Low-Latency Conversations with AI](https://github.com/collabora/WhisperFusion)

- WhisperFusion is a platform that enhances the capabilities of WhisperLive and WhisperSpeech.
- It enables seamless interaction with an AI chatbot.
- WhisperFusion improves the user experience by combining the functionalities of the existing Whisper applications.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39176570)

- The WhisperFusion AI chatbot is discussed, highlighting its low latency and interruptibility.
- Speculations about the technology behind the chatbot include Google's speech recognition or Web Speech API.
- Smarterchild, a similar chatbot, is praised for its fast latency but limited interruptibility. Suggestions are made to improve AI interaction by implementing features like cues and interruption.

## [A Tour of Lisp: Embracing Different Dialects and Pioneering Projects in 2023](https://www.fosskers.ca/en/blog/rounds-of-lisp)

- The author shares their experience exploring different Lisp dialects such as Guile, Common Lisp, Fennel, Clojure, and Emacs Lisp in 2023.
- They discuss the strengths and drawbacks of each dialect and praise Clojure for its tooling and community support.
- The author expresses their preference for a Lisp language that combines features from Clojure and Common Lisp and encourages newcomers to embrace Lisp, seek help from online communities, and build real projects.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39182721)

- The summaries cover discussions on various programming languages within the Lisp family, including Guile, Gauche, Common Lisp, Scheme, Clojure, Elisp, Hy, Fennel, Janet, and Racket.
- Users share their experiences, opinions, and concerns about these languages, focusing on documentation, performance, compatibility, and job opportunities.
- The advantages and challenges of using Lisp languages are explored, alongside the popularity and limitations of programming languages like Python and Java. Other topics covered include immutability, debugging, syntax, and the application of Lisp in different contexts.

## [Former Air Force Officer Discovers Possible Amelia Earhart Plane](https://www.businessinsider.com/sonar-image-pilot-amelia-earhart-plane-found-pacific-ocean-2024)

- Former US Air Force officer, Tony Romeo, claims to have found what may be Amelia Earhart's missing plane using sonar technology on an unmanned submersible.
- The aircraft-shaped object was detected on the floor of the Pacific Ocean, about 100 miles from where Earhart's plane is believed to have crashed.
- Further investigations and clearer images are required for concrete confirmation, but if confirmed, this discovery could potentially solve the long-standing mystery of Earhart's disappearance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39179031)

- There is ongoing discussion about the possible discovery of Amelia Earhart's missing plane.
- There is debate about whether to salvage the plane or leave it as a historical artifact.
- The financial benefits of a military career are being discussed.
- Various theories and opinions on historical mysteries are being shared.

## [Why Walmart Pays Truck Drivers Six Figures](https://www.freightwaves.com/news/how-walmart-uses-trucking-to-dominate-american-retail)

- Walmart pays its truck drivers significantly higher salaries compared to the national average, with salaries in the six-figure range.
- The company relies heavily on its trucking workforce to maintain a robust supply chain and ensure timely delivery of products to its stores.
- Walmart has recently implemented changes in its hiring policies, allowing associates to join a training program to become fleet drivers, aiming to retain talent and maintain control over driver training and culture.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39176877)

- The discussion explores wages, compensation disparities, job satisfaction, and challenges across various industries, with a focus on truck drivers and Walmart.
- Key points include the perception of low wages at Walmart and the hierarchical pay structure in European tech companies.
- The challenges faced by truck drivers, the impact on their health, and concerns about automation and remote piloting in the trucking industry are also discussed.

## [Design Patterns and Considerations of Query Optimizers: Exploring Intermediate Representation (Part 1)](https://xuanwo.io/2024/02-what-i-talk-about-when-i-talk-about-query-optimizer-part-1/)

- This article delves into query optimizers and the design patterns and considerations of intermediate representation (IR) in relational databases.
- It explains how query optimizers translate SQL statements into execution plans and introduces an example of building a SQL IR using Rust programming language.
- The article explores the importance of property derivation for analyzing and optimizing the IR, the use of SQL for calculating properties, and the modifications required for relational algebra. It also discusses the benefits of using global identifiers in the IR and emphasizes the significance of sharing experiences in database development.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39176797)

- The thread revolves around query optimizers and the design of the intermediate representation (IR).
- The Query Graph Model (QGM) is critiqued, and alternative projects like Substrait, lingo-db.com, and Datafusion are suggested.
- The discussion touches on the optimizer in MySQL 8.0 and its reliance on relational algebra, and recommendations are shared for online database courses, a YouTube playlist, and a book on databases. The importance of citing references, including the inspiration from Haruki Murakami, is also highlighted, and the author agrees to update the post accordingly.

## [Apple's Vision Pro AR Headset Faces Missing Apps Challenge](https://stratechery.com/2024/the-apple-vision-pros-missing-apps/)

- Apple has introduced the Vision Pro AR headset, which has the potential to replace traditional home theaters.
- The article discusses Apple's business strategy, tracing the evolution from the iPod to the iTunes Music Store and the App Store.
- Apple is facing an antitrust lawsuit with Epic Games, concerning its control over App Store revenue.
- Notably, popular streaming services like Netflix and YouTube have chosen not to develop native apps for the Vision Pro, which is seen as a setback.
- There is speculation that Apple may partner with Disney to strengthen their streaming services and compete with Netflix.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39176899)

- The article and discussion cover various topics related to Apple's VR headset, the potential of VR and AR technology, and the limitations and challenges of VR devices.
- The conversation includes discussions on the lack of third-party apps and features on the Apple Vision Pro and the drawbacks of Windows Mobile compared to the iPhone.
- There is mention of the potential use of VR in platforms like Netflix, concerns about the high cost and practicality of VR headsets, and the potential impact of VR on shared viewing experiences.

## [Build Native iOS and Android Apps with Svelte Native](https://svelte-native.technology/)

- Svelte Native is a mobile application framework powered by Svelte, enabling developers to create native iOS and Android apps without web views.
- It offers a comprehensive development experience, leveraging the capabilities of Svelte such as transitions, stores, and reactivity.
- Svelte Native optimizes the mobile device's performance by compiling the app and efficiently updating the native view widgets. It also provides sample projects and repositories for grocery management, real-world applications, and a Hacker News reader.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39175393)

- The conversation centers around different mobile app development frameworks, including Svelte Native, React Native, Ionic/Capacitor, and NativeScript.
- Participants share their positive experiences and discuss concerns, limitations, and alternative options of these frameworks.
- Topics discussed include ease of use, compatibility, native development, third-party services, web-based apps, and performance.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Creating a C Program using libcurl with --libcurl Option" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Creating%20a%20C%20Program%20using%20libcurl%20with%20--libcurl%20Option&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20January%2030%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
