---
slug: '/2024/01/31'
---

# 2024-01-31

## [Making Emacs Look Nice: Using 24-bit Color in Terminals](https://chadaustin.me/2024/01/truecolor-terminal-emacs/)

- The author aims to improve the visual appeal of Emacs by implementing 24-bit color in terminals.
- The article delves into the history of ANSI escape codes and the patch that enabled 256 colors in xterm.
- Challenges associated with terminal compatibility and setting the appropriate TERM values are discussed.
- The author suggests developing a library that includes a contemporary terminfo database for terminal emulators.
- This terminfo database would support advanced features like 24-bit color and URL links and could be retrofitted to older programs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39189881)

- The discussion explores topics regarding terminal applications like Emacs, such as the complexities of utilizing 24-bit color and the limitations of terminfo.
- Users compare terminal-based Emacs with GUI options, discussing the challenges of editing remote files and the pros and cons of different terminal emulators.
- The conversation also delves into terminal color standards, the use of SSH wrappers, and the benefits of using tmux for session persistence.

## [Open-Source x64 and Arm GitHub Runners Provide Cost-Effective and Secure Cloud Alternative](https://www.ubicloud.com/use-cases/github-actions)

- Ubicloud is an open source cloud platform that offers an alternative to traditional cloud providers.
- It supports GitHub Actions and claims to reduce its cost by 10x.
- Each job runs in a clean and isolated virtual machine, ensuring security and isolation. Additionally, users receive 1,250 free build minutes per month for each account.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39191870)

- The discussion revolves around cloud platforms, CI/CD, GitHub Actions, and alternative options.
- Participants focus on Ubicloud, an open-source cloud platform that provides an alternative to conventional cloud providers and supports Linux runners for GitHub Actions.
- Topics highlighted include pricing, performance, caching, and the use of macOS for development, as well as alternative platforms, licensing requirements, and the launch of GitHub Actions for different operating systems.

## [Politicians Silent on Data Brokers' Role in Privacy Threat: Commenter](https://www.techdirt.com/2024/01/29/well-thats-everyone-senator-wyden-letter-confirms-the-nsa-is-buying-us-persons-data-from-data-brokers/)

- The commenter points out that politicians who criticize social media for threatening privacy often ignore the role of data brokers in facilitating surveillance of the public.
- The commenter argues that this silence indicates that politicians are being dishonest and using fear tactics.
- The post highlights the hypocrisy and lack of transparency in political discourse surrounding privacy and social media.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39189481)

- The discussion revolves around the NSA's acquisition of personal data from data brokers and its impact on Fourth Amendment rights.
- There is a debate over whether personal data still belongs to individuals once shared with third parties and the need for more transparency and awareness of data collection practices.
- The conversation analyzes the power dynamics between corporations, the government, and individuals regarding data ownership and privacy, and discusses the implications of government surveillance and the potential misuse of personal data.

## [Quickemu: Simplifying Virtual Machine Management for Windows, macOS, and Linux](https://github.com/quickemu-project/quickemu)

- Quickemu is a virtual machine manager that simplifies creating and running optimized virtual machines for Windows, macOS, and Linux.
- It supports features like clipboard sharing, file sharing, USB pass-through, and SSH port forwarding.
- Users need to meet requirements and install dependencies to use Quickemu, which provides options and commands for configuring virtual machines, including disk preallocation, network setup, and USB redirection. Helpful resources and guides are available for virtualization with QEMU/KVM and Windows/macOS guests.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39188432)

- The discussion centers around virtualization management tools, such as virt-manager, Quickemu, and Proxmox, comparing their user-friendliness, GUI options, and limitations.
- Topics covered include software configuration, security measures, GPG signing, certificate pinning, and establishing trust in downloading files.
- The conversation also explores the risks and benefits of tweak utilities, code-explaining tools, and running virtual machines on different operating systems, emphasizing the importance of usability, security, and trust in software.

## [Apple Vision Pro: Impressive VR Experience with Limitations](https://www.theverge.com/24054862/apple-vision-pro-review-vr-ar-headset-features-price)

- The Apple Vision Pro is a virtual reality headset that aims to bring augmented reality and spatial computing to consumers.
- However, it faces competition from existing VR headsets and has drawbacks such as a high price tag, inconsistent tracking, and a heavy design.
- The headset is praised for its display technology and video passthrough, but it also has limitations in terms of field of view, motion blur, and color reproduction.
- The hand and eye tracking system is advanced but has challenges in terms of precision and ease of use.
- Overall, the Vision Pro offers a unique and impressive experience, but it may not be suitable as a primary computing device and can be isolating.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39190506)

- The article and comments delve into Apple's Vision Pro virtual reality headset and its potential impact on different markets.
- There is mixed feedback on the device, with some praising its features and others highlighting its limitations.
- The discussion also touches on Apple's approach to entering new industries, concerns regarding data security, and the future prospects of smartphones and wearable computing.

## [Intel's Struggle: CEO Takes Action to Reshape Future](https://stratechery.com/2024/intels-humbling/)

- Intel is facing challenges and a decline in stock price due to a lack of investment in the future and failure to keep up with market changes.
- The company's CEO, Pat Gelsinger, is focused on improving manufacturing and competing with rivals like AMD.
- Intel is making progress in its advanced manufacturing strategy and has partnered with UMC to produce chips, aiming to enhance its foundry services and scale up relationships at a lower cost.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39197619)

- Intel is facing challenges due to past research and development failures and a negative impact on its stock price.
- There is optimism about Intel's recovery and progress in catching up with competitors, emphasizing the importance of investment in research and development and diversifying manufacturing capabilities.
- Concerns are raised about Intel's reliance on political factors and subsidies for success, as well as its dependence on the Chinese market.

## [Why flying insects gather at artificial lights: Study reveals erratic flight behavior and its implications](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-024-44785-3)

- Flying insects do not directly steer towards artificial lights but turn their bodies towards them, resulting in erratic flight paths.
- This behavior is believed to be a response to maintaining proper flight attitude and control under natural sky light.
- The study provides a plausible explanation for why insects are attracted to artificial lights and aims to understand the impact of increasing light pollution on insect populations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39192807)

- Flying insects are often attracted to artificial lights, and various theories are explored to explain this behavior.
- Some theories suggest that insects mistake lights for the moon or use them as reference points for navigation.
- Insects rely on the moon for orientation, and their behavior near artificial lights can be influenced by this reliance.
- The importance of citizen science and personal scientific exploration is discussed in the context of studying insect behavior.
- Optimizing outdoor light locations, bug zapper designs, and the impact of light on spider behavior are also touched upon.
- There is a debate about the significance of a recent paper on insect navigation and the use of stars by insects for orientation.
- The discussion provides valuable insights into the intricate behavior of insects and their interaction with light sources.

## [Return-to-Office Mandates Mask Poor Management, University of Pittsburgh Study Finds](https://www.forbes.com/sites/qhamirani/2024/01/26/ceos-are-using-return-to-office-mandates-to-mask-poor-management/)

- A research paper from the University of Pittsburgh suggests that CEOs use return-to-office mandates to regain control and blame poor performance on employees, rather than for enhancing firm value.
- Contrary to popular belief, returning to the office does not boost company value and has no significant impact on profitability or stock returns.
- There is a decrease in employee job satisfaction due to return-to-work mandates, raising questions about the interests of the workforce vs. business bottom lines.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39191696)

- The discussion explores various aspects of remote work, management practices, and the pandemic's effect on work arrangements.
- Topics debated include remote management effectiveness, the pros and cons of communication tools, challenges with onboarding new hires remotely, and controversies surrounding Amazon's work culture.
- Other issues addressed include work-life balance, commuting, and the use of timesheets, providing multiple perspectives and opinions.

## [Tiny Anguilla profits from .ai website boom](https://spectrum.ieee.org/ai-domains)

- The popularity of .ai website registrations is benefiting the Caribbean island of Anguilla financially, due to the increased demand driven by the artificial intelligence boom.
- Vince Cate has played a key role in handling the influx of interest in these domains for Anguilla.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39194477)

- The discussion focuses on country code top-level domains (ccTLDs) like .tv, .ai, .tk, .cx, .io, and .je.
- Participants discuss the revenue, risks, and limitations associated with these domains.
- Topics include domain squatting, political conflicts, domain ownership, the importance of selecting top-level domains for business websites, control and decentralization of TLDs, DNS hierarchy, and the history and cost of domain registration.

## [Transforming Unused Parking Lots: Embracing Green Spaces for a Sustainable Future](https://danrodricks.com/2024/01/29/tear-up-unused-parking-lots-plant-trees/)

- The author proposes the conversion of unused parking lots in urban and suburban areas into green spaces or for alternative purposes.
- They argue that there is an excessive number of parking spaces in the US, and changes in our lifestyle have reduced the demand for asphalt.
- The author emphasizes the detrimental effects of parking lots on human health and the environment.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39194297)

- The discussion explores various aspects of urban planning, transportation, parking, and livability in cities in the US.
- Efforts to prioritize people over cars are highlighted, including the removal of parking requirements and dismantling highways to create pedestrian and bike-friendly spaces.
- The impact of highways on traffic congestion is debated, with some advocating for their removal and others proposing alternative transportation options to address the issue. The conversation also touches on commuting challenges, housing affordability, noise pollution, and the future of transportation. Ultimately, the importance of sustainable and accessible urban environments that prioritize pedestrians and offer alternatives to car-dependency is emphasized.

## [Google removes cache link from search results, prompts discussions on Mastodon](https://www.seroundtable.com/google-search-drops-cache-link-from-search-results-36787.html)

- Google has removed the cache link from its search results page after conducting testing for several months.
- Users can still access the cache feature by searching "[cache:domain.com]".
- The removal of the cache link has sparked discussions among users on platforms such as Mastodon, but it does not represent the views of RustyBrick, Inc., the company that owns Search Engine Roundtable.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39198329)

- Google has removed the cache link from search results, leading to frustration among users who found it helpful.
- Speculation suggests that this decision may be driven by a focus on increasing ad revenue or cost-cutting.
- Users are concerned about the implications for AI, copyright issues, and the decline of the "cache" qualifier. They discuss alternative search engines like Kagi and express disappointment with the decline in search result quality, mentioning an abundance of ads and deterioration of Google's indexing capabilities. Some recommend using Archive.org or Bing Cache as alternatives.

## [Covid Test Provider's Data Breach Exposes 1.3M Patient Records, Including PII](https://www.vpnmentor.com/news/report-coronalab-breach/)

- A cybersecurity researcher discovered a database with 1.3 million patient records, including COVID-19 testing information and personal data, like names and dates of birth.
- The exposed database belonged to a commercial test provider in the Netherlands and contained certificates, appointments, testing samples, and internal files.
- The data was left unprotected for almost three weeks, posing risks to personal and medical privacy and highlighting the importance of data security and compliance with GDPR regulations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39191260)

- The conversation covers topics such as data breaches, security of personal information, COVID-19 testing and vaccinations, quarantine measures, and vendor choices.
- Users express concerns about the vulnerability of patient records and the need for better security measures.
- Other discussions include frustrations with companies demanding personal identification documents and skepticism about the pandemic response.

## [Crime Rings Trafficking Sand: A Global Threat to the Environment and Security](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/sand-mafias-are-plundering-the-earth/)

- Illegal sand mining and trafficking is a global problem that is causing environmental damage and security concerns.
- The demand for sand in the construction industry is leading to unsustainable extraction rates and could result in shortages by 2050.
- The illegal sand trade is a lucrative business protected by powerful individuals and organizations, causing destruction of habitats, flooding, and disruption of marine life. Stricter regulations and international pressure are necessary to combat this issue.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39190345)

- The illegal sand trade is a lucrative industry worth billions of dollars and causes significant environmental harm.
- Solutions to this problem include exploring alternative materials like crushed rock or desert sand, but further research is necessary.
- Other aspects discussed include the importance of aggregate shape in concrete, the feasibility and consequences of different approaches, sand quality for construction, replenishing beaches, and the cost-effectiveness of manufacturing synthetic sand.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Making Emacs Look Nice: Using 24-bit Color in Terminals" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Making%20Emacs%20Look%20Nice%3A%20Using%2024-bit%20Color%20in%20Terminals&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20January%2031%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
