---
slug: '/2023/09/05'
---

# 2023-09-05

## [VSCodium – Open-source binaries of VSCode](https://vscodium.com)

- VSCodium is a free and open-source substitute for Microsoft's Visual Studio Code (VS Code), driven by the community and offering binaries of VS Code devoid of the proprietary license and telemetry/tracking.
- Ease of access to the MIT-licensed VS Code is made more convenient thanks to VSCodium, with options to download directly or install through package managers across multiple platforms like Windows, Mac OS, and Linux.
- VSCodium also provides a Flatpak app installation option and detailed documentation for users transitioning from Visual Studio Code.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37381335)

- The conversation discusses different topics including software trust, open-source project vulnerabilities, and Microsoft's practices, in addition to alternate software considerations.
- Participants emphasized key aspects such as verification, supply chain security, data privacy, digital rights management (DRM), licensing, and extension compatibility.
- The discussion underscores the stress between proprietary practices and the open-source ethos observed in applications like Visual Studio Code.

## [Writing a C compiler in 500 lines of Python](https://vgel.me/posts/c500/)

- The text discusses a C compiler written in 500 lines of Python targeted towards WebAssembly, which can successfully compile and run simple C programs despite some limitations.
- It provides an insight into the different modules and classes used in this compiler, the mechanisms for controlling flow, and how it deals with global declarations.
- The compiler employs WASM instructions and structured control flow to handle loops and conditionals effectively.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37383913)

- The article delves into the complexity of creating a C compiler with Python, highlighting the distinctive characteristics of the C language, comprehension of scalar data types, and managing languages with infix notation.
- It touches upon eliminating the need for less mainstream platforms by targeting modern architectures, alongside discussing the negative and positive aspects of undertaking programming-related tasks.
- The narrative also explores the merits of university education, creating unique programming languages, and domain-specific languages, providing resources for crafting dynamic languages, and discusses the actual definition of a compiler.

## [Sony sends copyright notices to TV Museum about shows 40 to 60 years old](https://torrentfreak.com/tv-museum-will-die-in-48-hours-unless-sony-retracts-youtube-copyright-strikes-230904/)

- The Museum of Classic Chicago Television, a non-profit that preserves historical TV content, may close within 48 hours due to Sony's copyright strikes.
- These copyright claims, filed by Sony for TV shows from 40 to 60 years ago, have jeopardized the museum's status on YouTube, where it has run since 2007.
- Rick Klein, the founder of the museum, is urgently attempting to settle the copyright issues to prevent the project's termination.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37379272)

- The discourse entails multiple themes such as copyright infringement, archiving platforms, impacts of copyright laws on content creators, data hoarding, automated takedowns, and the autonomy of platforms to manage content.
- The discussion examines the distinction between matters of fact and law, the role of judicial powers to overlook certain laws, and politicians' comprehension of internet technologies.
- It highlights the debate over entities' rights to decline hosting content, watermarks' usage, preservation of dated works, and the human involvement in copyright takedown processes.

## [Get a cable modem, go to jail (1999)](http://telecom.csail.mit.edu/judy-sammel.html)

- The author recounts a personal experience about being incorrectly charged with cable fraud by Comcast@home, leading to a criminal summons.
- Despite facing hurdles with Comcast and the court system, the charges were dismissed, after which the author suggested improvements to Comcast's procedures to avoid similar situations.
- The author calls for clearer roles for customer support and received an apology from Comcast; the author's criminal record was consequently expunged.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37386397)

- The forum loosely relates to personal anecdotes as a broadband technician, touching upon subjects like gun safety and legislation, gun ownership in distinctive countries, and theft of cable and infringement of copyrights.
- Discussions extend to experiences with service providers, the theory of a free market, and the expense associated with felony defense.
- Participants present diverse opinions on these issues, emphasizing the complexities and difference in perspectives entailed within these topics.

## [Tidal energy is not renewable](https://cs.stanford.edu/people/zjl/tide.html)

- The list encompasses several scientific papers discussing diverse topics, including theories of low and high-temperature superconductivity, superfluids, and electron tunneling.
- The importance and limitations of LK-99, the explanation behind Brownian motion, and the processes that drive Crookes radiometers are also examined.
- The list challenges misconceptions in thermodynamics, explores the possibility that Earth's magnetic field is a superconductor, discusses why tidal energy isn't renewable, and presents ways to understand relativity and derive E=mc2.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37383283)

- The discussion explores the renewable nature of tidal energy, exponential growth in energy consumption, and the feasibility of future energy projects, such as a Dyson sphere or swarm.
- Key topics include obstacles to sustainability, population growth, fertility rates, strategies to meet future energy demands, and energy consumption's impact on environmental stability and economic development.
- Other areas covered are the persistence of inequality, effects of energy extraction on Earth's rotation and climate, influence of wind patterns on energy generation, and the dynamics of the real estate and oil production industries.

## [Portal 64 – A demake of Portal for the Nintendo 64](https://github.com/lambertjamesd/portal64)

- The GitHub repository "portal64," created by lambertjamesd, is a demake of the game "Portal" tailored for the Nintendo 64 console, with code, assets, and related documentation included.
- The summary provides a guide on constructing the project using the Modern SDK, Blender, and various other tools, and it also outlines future tasks, features, and current bugs.
- This repository has accrued a large number of stars, watchers, and forks, highlighting its popularity among users, and the project operates under the MIT license.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37381407)

- Portal 64, a project aiming to demake the game Portal for the Nintendo 64 console, is currently under development. Its GitHub repository currently lacks visual updates, per user feedback.
- A debate surfaced, focusing on energy efficiency versus ecological impact in manufacturing and disposing of old hardware. Some argue for energy-efficient technology, while others support the utilization of existing hardware due to ecological reasons.
- Related topics expanded to include digital preservation, backward compatibility, and complexities of game development. The creator is known for successful N64 demakes using the N64 SDK, noted for compatibility with original hardware.

## [Oscilloscope watch ships after 10 years on Kickstarter](https://www.tomshardware.com/news/oscilloscope-watch-ships-after-10-years)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37385811)

- After a 10-year wait, the oscilloscope watch, which measures electrical activity and also serves as a timepiece, has started shipping to backers.
- The watch's release stimulated discussions around nerve conduction studies and electromyography, crowdfunding risks on platforms like Kickstarter, and experiences with other technological items such as the Ultimate Hacking Keyboard.
- Conversations also revolved around the intricacies involved in designing the oscilloscope watch, its accuracy, and its pre-release sales strategy.

## [I built a plane spotter for my son in minutes](https://louison.substack.com/p/i-built-a-plane-spotter-for-my-son)

- The author rapidly created a plane spotting tool using ChatGPT, a powerful technology, and adapted it into a web app that provides real-time notifications of nearby flights based on user location.
- The author emphasizes the potential for technology to convert ideas into reality quickly, suggesting a future focused on creative insights and effective machine communication.
- Pondering the future, the author hypothesizes the possibility of machines becoming highly intelligent, prompting humans to meditate and generate innovative queries.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37379801)

- The dialogue revolves around the use of AI language models like ChatGPT for producing code and associated ethical issues, such as intellectual property and attribution.
- Participants express contrasting views on the utility of ChatGPT, from its efficacy in generating quick code snippets and prototyping to concerns about originality, accuracy, and potential misuse.
- The author underscores the limitations of ChatGPT for programming tasks and emphasizes having realistic expectations, cautioning against sole reliance on it for extensive projects or critical functions.

## [ZFS for Dummies](https://ikrima.dev/dev-notes/homelab/zfs-for-dummies/)

- The article is a comprehensive guide designed to help understand and utilize ZFS, outlining its key components.
- The guide offers information on managing ZFS pools and file systems, along with creating snapshots and mounting datasets.
- The article includes additional links for deeper understanding and further study on ZFS.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37387392)

- The article "ZFS for Dummies" gives advice to beginners on how to effectively use and optimize ZFS, a file system, while addressing potential issues and backup solutions.
- Commenters back-and-forth on the subject of ZFS's configuration and functionality, with general consensus that its default settings are apt for most users.
- The piece also contains a debate regarding licensing issues of ZFS and its compatibility with other open source licenses, albeit opinions deem legal repercussions as improbable.

## [Geo Guesser identifies the location and seat number from an aerial shot](https://twitter.com/georainbolt/status/1698553197684777069)

- A Twitter user, Rainbolt, shared their flight information, including coordinates and destination, on the social media platform.
- The user was heading towards Dallas, Texas.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37383245)

- Geo Guesser refers to individuals skilled in identifying locations and seat numbers from aerial images.
- While concerns exist about AI potentially misusing or outperforming this skill, others view AI as a tool to augment Geo Guessing capabilities.
- The discussion also delves into skepticism regarding AI, alternative approaches, AI training methods, chess, and Elon Musk's ownership of certain websites.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="VSCodium – Open-source binaries of VSCode" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=VSCodium%20%E2%80%93%20Open-source%20binaries%20of%20VSCode&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20September%205%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
