---
slug: '/2023/09/06'
---

# 2023-09-06

## [I’m an FCC Commissioner proposing regulation of IoT security updates](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37392676)

- FCC Commissioner Nathan Simington is stressing the need for security updates for IoT devices, highlighting common vulnerabilities and a shortage of timely manufacturer support.
- The FCC proposes a cybersecurity labeling program for connected devices, with security update support disclosure as a key criterion.
- Commissioner Simington encourages public feedback on this proposal to help in decision-making, with a submission deadline of September 25th, 2023.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37392676)

- FCC Commissioner Nathan Simington proposed regulations aiming for manufacturers to provide security updates for IoT devices for a specific period post-purchase.
- The FCC has launched a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for a cybersecurity labeling program, highlighting the value of public comments in decision-making.
- Topics in discussion include the challenges of remote update mechanisms, probing IoT devices for vulnerabilities, the cooperative framework between researchers and companies, the role of government in IoT security, and concerns about cybercrime.

## [OpenTF repository is now public](https://github.com/opentffoundation/opentf)

- The opentf repository on GitHub is a developing project gearing up for its first alpha release. OpenTF is an open-source tool used for infrastructure management, utilizing high-level configuration syntax.
- OpenTF comes with several features like infrastructure as code, execution plans, a resource graph & automated changes. The repository also contains OpenTF Core, the command line interface, and the principle graph engine.
- OpenTF repository includes a guide for contributors detailing how to compile OpenTF as well as how to submit bug reports or enhancement requests. The repository is licensed under Mozilla Public License v2.0.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37392581)

- The OpenTF repository has been publicly launched on GitHub, inciting conversations about the employment of binary search and PRs (Pull Requests) to detect and rectify coding issues, worries about the merging process, and potential licensing problems in the Terraform fork.
- There have been discussions about likely trademark issues that may cause confusion with other products within the OpenTF project, and the frustration caused by licensing changes in Terraform.
- Various opinions have been voiced on the licensing decisions made by HashiCorp, focusing on the expectations of users and competitors, and there's palpable concern about the future of open-source projects and possible dissuasion for businesses.

## [Rockstar is selling cracked game copies on Steam](https://twitter.com/__silent_/status/1698345924840296801)

- '

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37394665)

- Rockstar Games is allegedly selling cracked versions of games on Steam, stirring discussions around potential copyright violation and the efficacy of digital rights management (DRM) protocols.
- The discussion includes points on the legality of derivative works, distribution of cracked software, and various gaming industry's copyright protection strategies, highlighting the controversial takedown of a Star Trek fan project.
- The dialogues revolve around the rightful ownership of cracked software, with some users arguing that Rockstar should have avoided DRM, while others critiquing the company for sharing pirated binaries.

## [Puck – Open-source visual editor for React](https://github.com/measuredco/puck)

- Puck, the newly developed tool, merges the adaptability of a traditional CMS (Content Management System) with the command granted by a headless CMS, empowering content teams to author using actual React components.
- Puck can function either as an independent editor or on the foundation of an existing headless CMS and is compatible with Next.js, an open-source development framework.
- The author is welcoming feedback for continued improvements, indicating plans for future updates to Puck.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37391848)

- Puck is an open-source visual editor for React which enables content teams to build web pages using React components. It can function with an existing headless Content Management System (CMS) or as an autonomous tool.
- The creator of Puck plans to add support for multi-column layouts and new plugins following positive feedback for its user-friendly design and versatility. Users have proposed improvements and expressed interest in utilizing Puck for their projects.
- The author discusses the merits and drawbacks of Puck, comparing it to alternatives such as Storyblok, Vue Designer, and grapesjs, and mentions Builder.io as another visual React builder.

## [Learn WebAssembly by writing small programs](https://github.com/EmNudge/watlings)

- "Watlings" is a GitHub repository under active development aiming to assist users in learning WebAssembly (Wasm) through hands-on fixing of small programs.
- The project is open to contributions with users invited to file issues and make pull requests, utilizing Node 16+ and NPM for compilation and testing.
- The repository provides instructions for setup and usage, and recommends tools like the official WebAssembly Binary Toolkit and VSCode with the WATI extension for an optimal coding experience. The methodology focuses on learning by doing with minimal explanations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37393820)

- The discussed articles concentrate on WebAssembly (WASM) and its utilization in web development, covering the benefits of using WASM for heavy workloads despite its limitations like lack of access to the Document Object Model (DOM) and limited tooling.
- Various programming languages, frameworks, and tools compatible with WASM are also reviewed, expanding its usability in the coding spectrum.
- Additionally, they share experiences and opinions on WASM's potential, providing insight into its practicality and future in web development.

## [Android 14 blocks all modification of system certificates, even as root?](https://httptoolkit.com/blog/android-14-breaks-system-certificate-installation/)

- Android 14 restricts the ability to alter trusted certificates even on rooted devices, aiming to increase security by enabling Google to revoke the trust of problematic certificate authorities.
- This move could impact privacy, impede the adoption of new certificates, and cause difficulties for new certification authorities like Let's Encrypt.
- As a workaround, users can use Android 13 for debugging HTTPS traffic and HTTP Toolkit for examining and debugging Android traffic while alternative solutions for network traffic interception on Android are being discussed.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37391521)

- Dialogues cover a range of tech topics, including Android 14 changes that prevent system certificate alteration, secure communication and authentication for banking applications, and the utilization of cardTAN for authentication.
- There's discussion around challenges with closed-source software, restrictions imposed by tech companies, the future of open hardware, HTTPS privacy issues on iOS, and the effects of Android 14 on Let's Encrypt certificates and user CA certificates on Android devices.
- Topics also include potential implications of hardware attestation, compatibility of rooted devices with apps/services, varying operating systems' control and security, and concerns on governmental surveillance and control, illustrating the friction between security, control, and user freedom in the tech sphere.

## [A currently maintained fork of SSHFS](https://github.com/deadbeefsociety/sshfs)

- This is a spin-off of the SSHFS project which permits users to connect with a remote filesystem using SFTP, a secure file transfer protocol.
- The original SSHFS is unmaintained now, prompting the creation of this fork aiming to resolve issues, accept pull requests, and provide necessary support and updates until a separate rust fork is prepared.
- Developed using C, Python, Shell, Meson, and Emacs Lisp languages, the project is open to contributions and encourages users to report bugs on their GitHub issue tracker.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37390184)

- The discussion on Hacker News centers around alternative tools for remote file access such as SSHFS, TRAMP, and SFTP, along with user experiences and preferences regarding these tools.
- The potential cessation of SSHFS is debated and the author provides resources on SFTP-over-WS, discussing further alternatives like rclone mount, Nautilus, and NFS over Wireguard.
- Other topics addressed include open-source software project maintenance, build automation config files, package management for various programming languages, and comparisons between cloud storage platforms. User frustration concerning the lack of standardization and configuration inconvenience in various programs is also voiced.

## [Can LLMs learn from a single example?](https://www.fast.ai/posts/2023-09-04-learning-jumps/)

- Fast.ai researchers found that large language models (LLMs) can rapidly memorize examples from datasets after a single exposure, defying typical expectations.
- This discovery could potentially influence how LLMs are trained and utilized.
- The research team proposes solutions such as dropout and stochastic depth techniques, and the use of diverse datasets during training to deter models from forgetting. They encourage further dialogue on this topic via Twitter.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37399873)

- The post investigates the capacity of language models (LLMs) to learn from one example, their tendency for catastrophic forgetting, overconfidence, and utilization of inference during the training process.
- It explores how altering specific neurons in LLMs can affect their performance, underscores the value of human-curated data, and debates limitations of synthetic data usage.
- Lastly, it delves into the efficiency of LLMs in data memorization and the potential benefits of integrating long context windows.

## [If you can use open source, you can build hardware](https://redeem-tomorrow.com/if-you-can-use-open-source-you-can-build-hardware)

- The author emphasizes the benefits and accessibility of creating hardware products utilizing open-source code and microcontrollers, highlighting the ease and flexibility of various boards and software ecosystems like Arduino, MicroPython, and CircuitPython.
- The author underlines the convenience of using a two-wire serial data standard called I2C and cable standards such as StemmaQT and Qwiic, which simplify the building process.
- They also draw attention to the advent of 3D printing and Computer-aided Design (CAD) tools that facilitate manufacturing custom enclosures for hardware projects, encouraging readers to delve into DIY electronics creation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37395096)

- The summary discusses the difficulties and limitations of creating hardware using open-source resources, such as bridging the gap between prototyping and developing production-grade hardware.
- It emphasizes the DIY character of open-source hardware projects and highlights the significance of safety measures, proper measuring tools, and guidance for successful execution.
- It touches on the complexities of hardware design, the use of 3D printing, and the problems encountered while designing and prototyping, closing with the challenges and criticisms of constructing hardware projects without access to proprietary schematics.

## [The Federal Helium reserve is for sale](https://www.gsa.gov/about-us/regions/region-7-greater-southwest/region-7-newsroom/greater-southwest-feature-stories-and-news-releases/gsa-announces-sale-of-federal-helium-system-assets-06222023)

- The General Services Administration (GSA) has publicized its plans to sell the Federal Helium System assets, as directed by Congress, which includes properties, equipment, mineral rights, and a helium storage reservoir.
- The sales process, which is expected to last between 8-9 months, will involve the engagement of industry stakeholders to ensure an efficient transfer of assets.
- Detailed information on this process is available on the GSA website, where interested parties can also submit their bids within the given timeframe. The GSA provides procurement and shared services for the federal government and manages a real estate portfolio and technology services.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37391584)

- The US Federal Helium reserve is being privatized, sparking controversy and raising concerns about the rationale of selling this valuable resource.
- Questions are being raised about helium's limited supply and potential scarcity, its extensive usage across industries, and potential environmental implications of its extraction from natural gas.
- Fears abound that the sale could result in a future shortage of helium, adversely affecting sectors like healthcare and scientific research.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="I’m an FCC Commissioner proposing regulation of IoT security updates" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=I%E2%80%99m%20an%20FCC%20Commissioner%20proposing%20regulation%20of%20IoT%20security%20updates&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20September%206%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
