---
slug: '/2023/09/09'
---

# 2023-09-09

## [Bun v1.0.0](https://bun.sh/blog/bun-v1.0)

- Bun 1.0 is a toolkit designed to streamline JavaScript and TypeScript development, replacing multiple tools and offering compatibility with existing Node.js applications.
- It comes with TypeScript, JSX support, and inbuilt Web APIs, making it a capable JavaScript runtime that can reportedly handle more requests per second than Node.js.
- Additional features include WebSockets support and package management. The company that developed Bun 1.0 is situated in San Francisco and is currently recruiting staff.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37434117)

- The discussion is centered on Bun, a tool in the Node.js ecosystem that supports both CommonJS and ES modules, with users highlighting both pros and cons.
- The conversation also sheds light on using Discord and GitHub as communication platforms for open-source projects.
- The tool Bun is compared to other tools like Deno and Vite, with additional concerns raised regarding its stability and licensing.

## [Maybe Rust isn’t a good tool for massively concurrent, userspace software](https://bitbashing.io/async-rust.html)

- The author clarifies the purpose of Async Rust, a programming language focusing on modern concurrency, differentiating between parallelism and concurrency and outlining the limitations of code-splitting.
- Mutex-based concurrency is deemed detrimental due to risks of race conditions and deadlocks; thus, use of channels - or queues - for inter-thread communication is advised. However, for high-level concurrency problems, threads might not suffice, prompting Rust's "async/await" model.
- Despite these advantages, Async Rust presents challenges, such as ensuring compiler safety of objects and ubiquitous use of Arc (Atomic Reference Count). The suitability of Rust's massively concurrent userspace software application remains questionable.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37435515)

- The discourse covers diverse subjects around programming in Rust such as memory safety, concurrency, graphics development, productivity, and memory management.
- Participants' shared experiences shed light on the advantages and challenges of using Rust and its applicability for various use cases.
- The interaction also provides comparisons with other languages like Python and Go, and discusses multiple programming concepts like inheritance and abstraction, offering a view into Rust's strengths, weaknesses, and continuous efforts for enhancements.

## [Aardvark'd: The Fog Creek documentary, 18 years later](https://mtlynch.io/aardvarkd/)

- The post analyzes the documentary "Aardvark'd", which tracks interns at Fog Creek Software and includes interviews with accomplished tech industry personalities.
- It focuses on the state of independent software development in 2005, including the foundation of Y Combinator and the genesis of Reddit.
- It provides criticism for the film's lack of resolution, highlights the release of a video course on improving software creation, and offers links to both the documentary and the course on YouTube.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37433186)

- The article provides detailed commentary on "Aardvark'd," a documentary by Fog Creek, offering corrections and added context from film participants.
- It explores multiple themes, such as Fog Creek Software's history, its product-related challenges and victories, and its relocation from Boston to Silicon Valley.
- A significant portion of the discussion revolves around the widespread use of Atlassian's JIRA and the prevalence of functional specifications in software development, offering a nostalgic look into technology's evolution.

## [Procreate Dreams](https://procreate.com/dreams)

- Procreate Dreams is a newly launched animation app, designed for creating hand-drawn animations, motion graphics and more.
- The app features multiple tools such as drawing, painting, audio and video editing, stage creation, live motion and effects, keyframes, real-time rendering, onion skins, and text and type animation.
- The application, which is compatible with iPad and Apple Pencil, will be available for purchase from November 22 at a price of $19.99 USD.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37434918)

- The Procreate app, known for its quality and affordability, has excited users with the launch of its Procreate 5X version, introducing a new animation feature.
- The upcoming Procreate animation app, Dreams, has elicited mixed reactions, with some users displaying enthusiasm while others question the need for adverts.
- Amid positive feedback for the iPad app, discussions have surfaced regarding the potential development of Procreate for Android tablets.

## [Apple vs. Meta: The Illusion of Privacy](https://growth.design/case-studies/apple-privacy-policy)

- The article investigates the tactics employed by Apple and Meta to gather user data under the guise of providing privacy.
- It delves into the role of psychology and user experience (UX) techniques in data collection strategies.
- While these companies claim to protect user privacy, their underlying methods might contradict these assurances.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37433495)

- The article raises privacy issues centered around tech companies including Apple, Meta (Facebook's new name), and Google, with users and advertisers expressing concerns over targeted advertising and data collection.
- There's a debate on the ethical implications of various tech companies' data practices, with some criticism aimed at Apple's control over user data, while others commend Apple's privacy measures in comparison to other industry leaders.
- The dialog also touches on the use of facial recognition technology and intrusive ads, emphasizing the broader need for privacy protection and more transparency from all tech companies.

## [Flexport is rescinding a bunch of signed offer letters](https://twitter.com/typesfast/status/1700092765798048093)

- Flexport, a business entity, has withdrawn job offers from workers who were set to commence work on Monday.
- The company's CEO, Ryan Petersen, voiced his regrets over the incident.
- This decision was necessitated by problems encountered with the hiring processes.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37433681)

- Flexport, a logistics firm, attracted criticism for retracting job offers and discontinuing job postings, leading to a debate about its hiring practices and the ramifications of abrupt job exits.
- The discourse on Hacker News encapsulates a broad spectrum of issues, including labor rights, employer loyalty, and the effects of layoffs, emphasising the moral dilemmas associated with rescinded job offers.
- The conversation also sheds light on the benefits and drawbacks of remote work, sparking comparisons between the feasibility of working from home versus on-site office execution.

## [Emoji Generator with AI](https://emoji.fly.dev)

- EmojiGen is an open-source emoji generator hosted on Replicate, allowing users to design and create custom emojis.
- It extends its functionality by permitting users to fork the app on GitHub, specifically enabling the creation of unique emoji such as a floppy disk sandwich, a burning GPU, and various pop culture icons.
- Users can generate emojis, download, and subsequently utilize them in platforms like Slack, fostering a more personalized messaging experience.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37433523)

- The article reviews an AI-powered emoji generator, with user feedback revealing concerns about biases and potential for integration into chat platforms.
- The discussion also centers on Fly.io, a website service, with mixed feedback revolving around issues like reliability, data loss, and connection, alongside positive experiences and competitive pricing.
- The limitations of the emoji generator, particularly regarding accuracy and biases, prompts a broader conversation about the responsibility of AI model creators in tackling these biases.

## [FTC judge decides Intuit’s ‘free’ TurboTax ads misled consumers](https://www.theverge.com/2023/9/8/23864538/turbotax-intuit-ftc-deceptive-practices-free-tax-filing)

- The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has ruled that Intuit, TurboTax's parent company, misled consumers by advertising its tax filing service as "free."
- Following the ruling and a $141 million payout after an FTC lawsuit, Intuit is now required to clearly disclose any terms that limit its free product offerings.
- In light of difficulties encountered while trying to locate Intuit's actual free filing service, Free File, IRS is developing a government-supported free filing service set to pilot in the 2024 tax season.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37437311)

- The discussion revolves around users' dissatisfaction with the TurboTax product from Intuit because of undisclosed fees, deceptive promotions, and a lack of transparency.
- Alternative tax filing options like FreeTaxUSA and Cash App Taxes are suggested as more transparent and cost-effective solutions.
- Topics of lobbying influence, corruption in the tax system, misleading advertising, and calls for system reform highlight the larger context of these user complaints and hints at the need for significant changes in the tax filing system.

## [Bees struggle to find flowers because of air pollution](https://www.birmingham.ac.uk/news/2023/bees-struggle-to-find-flowers-because-of-air-pollution)

- A new study by the UK Centre for Ecology & Hydrology and various universities reveals that air pollution hinders bees' ability to find flowers as ozone degrades the scent of flowers.
- The study found a reduction of up to 90% in honeybees' odor recognition ability, indicating potential adverse effects on wildflower abundance and crop yields, as bees play a crucial role in pollination vital for food security.
- The research also indicates that ozone may affect other odor-influenced behaviors of insects, such as mate attraction, enforcing the need for action on air pollution to safeguard food production and biodiversity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37434381)

- Air pollution is purportedly causing a reduction in bee activity and difficulty in locating flowers, contributing to the decline of insect populations. Additional factors might include traffic and noise pollution, and a decrease in bee resources.
- Some participants noted an increase in bee activity and wildlife, potentially due to favorable conditions or efforts to foster insect-friendly environments.
- Discussions pointed out the possible impact of pollution on bee attraction to specific plants, hints of evolutionary pressure leading to bee adaptation to pollution, and an innovative solution to vehicular pollution through a catalytic converter.

## [Decoded: GNU Coreutils (2018)](https://maizure.org/projects/decoded-gnu-coreutils/)

- The report covers MaiZure's project to demystify GNU coreutils version 8.3, specifically designed for beginner programmers.
- Major pillars of the article are the overview of completed phases and deep dive into the design and features of utilities, encompassing information about the decoding framework applied for each utility and the prevalent concepts.
- Also, it features insights into utility maintenance, updates, and processes for contributing to the project.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37439535)

- The discussion primarily centers on the "yes" command within the GNU Coreutils, highlighting the trade-offs between a program's efficiency and conciseness.
- It emphasizes the advantage of using C programming language in writing system utilities, as this choice can lead to enhanced performance.
- A notable irony is pointed out, that lengthy codes can sometimes be found in programs designed to perform no significant task.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Bun v1.0.0" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Bun%20v1.0.0&subheading=Saturday%2C%20September%209%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
