---
slug: '/2023/09/10'
---

# 2023-09-10

## [Asking 60 LLMs a set of 20 questions](https://benchmarks.llmonitor.com)

- The person developed a script designed to test basic reasoning, instruction following, and creativity of over 60 models.
- The responses were stored in a SQLite database, offering unprocessed results for review.
- This project aims at evaluating the performance of these models in actual, real-world workflows.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37445401)

- The discussion revolves around diverse aspects of AI language models, with a focus on their performance, limitations, and scope for enhancement.
- Members exchange personal experiences and views on the accuracy, consistency, and applicability of these models in different scenarios, also discussing transparency and bias issues.
- The discourse suggests the profound complexities, challenges, and potential benefits involved in the adoption of AI language models in varying domains.

## [Lithium discovery in US volcano could be biggest deposit ever found](https://www.chemistryworld.com/news/lithium-discovery-in-us-volcano-could-be-biggest-deposit-ever-found/4018032.article)

- A formidable lithium deposit, potentially the world's largest, has been discovered along the Nevada-Oregon border, which could significantly contribute to the global supply of lithium.
- The deposit, housed in an unusual claystone in a volcanic crater, contains an estimated 20 to 40 million tonnes of lithium, nearly double that found in lithium-rich minerals.
- This discovery, if leveraged efficiently, could materially impact the worldwide lithium market—altering prices, ensuring supply security, and influencing geopolitical dynamics.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37450915)

- The discussion emphasises lithium production aspects, including availability, refining and recycling challenges, and environmental impact, highlighting the need for specific skills and procedures for efficient battery manufacturing.
- China currently leads in lithium refining, with noted viable lithium companies in the US. The conversation mentions the complexities and challenges related to recycling aluminum and calls for improved recycling rates for lithium.
- The concern over the environmental footprint of lithium mining is countered by its vital role in electrification and combating climate change, with geopolitical implications. Calls for further research into eco-friendly extraction are linked to opposition to a proposed lithium mine in Nevada.

## [Every type of plastic used by LEGO (2022)](https://bricknerd.com/home/every-type-of-plastic-used-by-lego-5-20-22)

- This article outlines the various plastics LEGO employs, delving into their characteristics and applications.
- LEGO's plastic compositions are trade secrets, underscoring the firm's endeavors to create eco-friendly materials.
- The piece speculates on potential future materials for LEGO bricks, demonstrating continuous innovation in this field.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37444268)

- The article provides insight into the types of plastics used by LEGO, including discussions on storage, preservation, aging, and brittleness.
- It raises questions about the environmental consequences of LEGO's use of plastics and potential greenwashing, despite the company's sustainability objectives.
- The potential risk of microplastics and concerns about food safety in relation to LEGO lunchboxes are addressed, with suggestions for regular disassembly and washing.

## [Memories from old LAN parties](https://thomask.sdf.org/blog/2023/09/09/memories-from-old-lan-parties.html)

- The author brings a nostalgic insight into LAN parties from the 2000s, highlighting experiences with Windows operating systems, hardware modifications, and gaming practices.
- The narrative recalls unique incidents like the necessity to reinstall Windows, hard drive theft, the use of cracks for pirated games, and the development of LAN technology over time.
- The article takes a humorous and retrospecting lens towards the complexities and peculiarities of previous LAN gaming experiences.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37451518)

- The discussion reflects on the nostalgia and fond memories associated with LAN (Local Area Network) parties during the 90s and early 2000s.
- Participants reminisce about their experiences in playing games, configuring computers, and the thrill and challenges of LAN gaming.
- The conversation underscores the elements of camaraderie, competition, and pleasure that LAN parties fostered.

## [SmartKnob – Haptic input knob with software-defined endstops and virtual detents](https://github.com/scottbez1/smartknob)

- SmartKnob is an open-source input device utilizing a brushless gimbal motor and magnetic encoder for precise control, offering customization for detents and endstops.
- The development of this project is still ongoing and necessitates advanced soldering capabilities.
- SparkFun Electronics manufactures and provides the suggested motors, and a Discord community exists for users to converse about their builds.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37448659)

- SmartKnob is an open-source hardware project that has created a haptic input knob with software-defined endstops and virtual detents, praised for its potential in areas like music instruments, control panels, and simulators.
- Despite the enthusiasm, some are expressing concerns about protection against voltage generated by the user's rotation of the knob.
- The project is well-documented with a polished design and the creator is open to feedback and contributions for improvement, indicating an ongoing evolution in response to user needs.

## [Morocco earthquake kills more than 1,000](https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/live-blog/morocco-earthquake-kills-600-devastates-historic-sites-live-updates-rcna104208)

- A series of devastating earthquakes hit Morocco, leading to considerable loss of life and infrastructural damage.
- The Moroccan King has enacted search and rescue teams, and the international community including the U.S. and Pope Francis have offered support and condolences.
- Humanitarian groups and multiple countries are providing aid and assistance, as the process of searching for survivors and evaluating the level of damage continues.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37445284)

- The deadly earthquake in Morocco has instigated an extensive discussion focusing on earthquake preparedness, visa policies for US immigrant professionals, and housing infrastructural concerns in quake-prone areas.
- A controversial topic within the discussions is the claim made by a researcher who believes they can predict earthquakes based on planetary influences, drawing skepticism due to insufficient supporting scientific evidence.
- The debate also ventures into the impacts of tourism on affected communities and the contention surrounding borders and immigration rights.

## [Google, Meta, Amazon hiring low-paid H1B workers after US layoffs](https://www.moneycontrol.com/europe/?url=https://www.moneycontrol.com/news/trends/layoffs-google-microsoft-meta-amazon-hiring-low-paid-h1b-workers-after-us-layoffs-report-10605301.html)

- Top tech companies like Google, Meta, Amazon, Microsoft, Zoom, Salesforce, and Palantir have been applying for thousands of H1B worker visas this year, even while conducting mass layoffs.
- Despite laying off employees, these companies still filed applications for H1B visas aiming to hire roles such as software engineers and researchers, reportedly focusing on lower-paid tech workers from overseas.
- The layoffs have impacted many current workers on H1B visas, including those from India, highlighting a conflicting strategy of staff reduction while still seeking to hire foreign talent.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37444386)

- The discussion revolves around large tech companies, including Google, Meta, and Amazon, being scrutinized for allegedly hiring low-paid H1B workers after laying off local US employees, potentially as a strategy to depress salaries.
- The conversation sheds light on the issues faced by H1B workers such as challenges related to language barriers, perceived bias in the hiring process, and concerns about their overall treatment, leading to calls for reform.
- An extension of the discussion ventures into broader debates around prioritization of citizens in hiring practices, the value of American lives, and the role of national boundaries.

## [Public restrooms are hard to find in America](https://www.washingtonpost.com/wellness/2023/09/08/public-restrooms-hard-find-comic/)

- The article highlights the challenge of locating public restrooms in America, a situation that particularly affects people with medical conditions.
- Public restroom shortage impacts various groups including individuals with bowel conditions, the homeless, older adults, and pregnant individuals.
- The article underscores the necessity of accessible restrooms for people who urgently need them.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37446083)

- The main focus of the discussion is the availability and accessibility of public restrooms in urban areas of the United States, with specific mention of issues such as homelessness, drug use, and vandalism.
- There is a debate on broader socio-economic factors, including inequality, civic responsibility, and the role businesses play in providing public facilities.
- The conversation takes a comparative angle, referencing European countries and discussing how mental health care and terrorism impact public restroom facilities.

## [The U.S. housing market vs. the Canadian housing market](https://awealthofcommonsense.com/2023/09/the-u-s-housing-market-vs-the-canadian-housing-market/)

- The article explores the significant difference between the United States and Canadian housing markets, with a 142% real increase in Canadian housing prices since 2005, compared to the U.S.'s 26% surge in the same period.
- The divergence is further noticeable when factoring in disposable income, where U.S. incomes have kept up with rising housing costs, yet Canadian incomes have lagged.
- The central argument is that affordability in the housing market, while problematic in the U.S., is profoundly worse in Canada.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37446790)

- There has been a notable upsurge in Canadian housing prices, making homeownership increasingly challenging for young people and working individuals.
- Elements such as government policies, investor impact, stagnant wages, and immigration are reported as factors contributing to this housing affordability crisis.
- Various solutions are proposed including fast-tracked development, increased social housing funding, tax reforms, and balanced immigration policies, yet the absence of effective solutions and political stalemate is criticized.

## [CRISPR used to 'reprogram' cancer cells into healthy muscle in the lab](https://www.livescience.com/health/cancer/crispr-used-to-reprogram-cancer-cells-into-healthy-muscle-in-the-lab)

- Scientists have successfully leveraged CRISPR technology to transform cancer cells into healthy muscle cells.
- This breakthrough could pave the way for new possibilities in gene-editing therapies for cancer treatment.
- CRISPR, or Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats, is a gene-editing tool allowing researchers to precisely alter DNA sequences and modify gene function.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37444477)

- Scientists have utilized CRISPR gene editing technology to transform cancer cells into healthy muscle cells in a laboratory setting.
- This method could potentially pave the way for new treatments for muscle-degenerating diseases.
- However, there are still hurdles to surmount, primarily safeguarding that the technology doesn't inadvertently inflict harm on healthy tissues.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Asking 60 LLMs a set of 20 questions" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Asking%2060%20LLMs%20a%20set%20of%2020%20questions&subheading=Sunday%2C%20September%2010%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
