---
slug: '/2023/09/20'
---

# 2023-09-20

## [Can’t send email more than 500 miles (2002)](https://web.mit.edu/jemorris/humor/500-miles)

- The central issue, recounted by Trey Harris, was an inability within a campus email system to send emails beyond a distance of 500 miles.
- Harris uncovered this issue stemmed from a server upgrade that inadvertently downgraded the email system software, causing a timeout setting to be set to zero.
- The problem was ameliorated by adjusting this timeout setting, allowing emails to be sent without distance limitations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37576633)

- The Hacker News article and discussions feature funny and unusual IT problems, including a malfunctioning screensaver and a crashing computer.
- Participants also share stories and experiences about email systems, regional blocking, and network issue debugging.
- Popular anecdotes, like "The 500-Mile Email," are reminisced about, displaying a combination of humor and tech-related story sharing in the community.

## [Fixing for loops in Go 1.22](https://go.dev/blog/loopvar-preview)

- Go 1.22, the next release of the Go programming language, will modify the scoping of 'for' loops to prevent a common programming error where the loop variable assumes an undesired value. This change aims to manage references to loop variables outliving their iteration.
- The revised semantics of 'for' loops will be applicable only to packages within modules that declare Go 1.22 or later, ensuring backward compatibility as older code will operate as before.
- A preview of the scoping change is included in Go 1.21 and can be activated with the GOEXPERIMENT=loopvar environment variable. Some code and tests may require modifications to align with the new loop semantics.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37575204)

- The article engages in in-depth discussions about the advantages and disadvantages of different programming languages, particularly focusing on Go and Python.
- Topics covered include loop semantics, scoping, code readability, and productivity - key elements in code quality and programming efficiency.
- Through debates on potential problems and alternative solutions, the article aims to shed light on the ways to improve code quality and tackle design flaws in programming languages.

## [We are retroactively dropping the iPhone’s repairability score](https://www.ifixit.com/News/82493/we-are-retroactively-dropping-the-iphones-repairability-score-en)

- This summary revolves around the challenges of phone repairs, specifically regarding touch/face ID sensors and back glass replacement.
- The post criticizes Apple's practices, which are not conducive to repair, sparking discussions about the potential benefits of the "Right to Repair" bill.
- The author also raises environmental concerns tied to wastefulness and implies that a boycott of Apple's products could be an effective leverage for change.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37573332)

- The debate centers on Apple's policy of limiting "part harvesting" to curb theft and the resale of stolen components, which has led to iPhones getting a lower repairability rating.
- Participants in the discussion question the underlying motive for this policy, with some suggesting it's more profit-driven than consumer-focused, and its effectiveness in reducing theft. Alternative security measures are also proposed.
- The discussion also navigates the issues of the availability of authentic parts for repairs and the struggle to strike a balance between innovative design and repairability.

## [Car allergic to vanilla ice cream (2000)](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~wkw/humour/carproblems.txt)

- A customer complains to the Pontiac Division of General Motors about his car failing to start only after purchasing vanilla ice cream.
- Upon investigation, an engineer finds the car experiences vapor lock because the engine doesn't have enough cooling time when the man rapidly buys vanilla ice cream.
- This incident underscores the necessity of considering all possibilities, even those that initially sound absurd, in problem-solving.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37584399)

- This forum thread centers around unique technical problems often caused by environmental factors.
- It includes varying topics, like a recurring issue of a car not starting and stories of exceptional customer service, although the latter is viewed skeptically by the author.
- An anecdote about companies sending engineers to personally resolve customer issues also comes up in the discussion.

## [FAA authorizes Zipline to deliver commercial packages using drones](https://www.faa.gov/newsroom/faa-authorizes-zipline-deliver-commercial-packages-beyond-line-sight)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37580141)

- The Federal Aviation Administration allowed Zipline, a drone delivery company, to conduct commercial deliveries beyond visual line of sight, sparking conversations surrounding the practicality, risks, and technological needs of drone deliveries.
- Participants showed concerns over potential safety and pollution risks, whilst others believe these issues can be mitigated with proper systems in place.
- Drone deliveries are viewed as promising, however, issues such as the necessity for advances in battery technology, fair wage provisions, and sustainable practices need addressing.

## [OpenTF is now OpenTofu](https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/issues/296#issuecomment-1727171446)

- A discussion on GitHub revolved around renaming the OpenTF project due to potential trademark conflicts.
- The community sought a new name that aligns with the project's purpose and is easily searchable through search engines.
- Ultimately, the project was rebranded as OpenTofu under the Linux Foundation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37581132)

- The OpenTofu project, previously called OpenTF, has been included in the Linux Foundation and is setting up a governance structure.
- The project's technical aspects will be managed by an interim technical lead, and a steering committee, including various company representatives, has been selected.
- The dialogue also highlights concerns about changes in HashiCorp's licensing and pricing, suggestions for leadership modifications, and a greater emphasis on community involvement.

## [Svelte 5: Runes](https://svelte.dev/blog/runes)

- The forthcoming Svelte 5 API, known as "Runes," introduces granular reactivity and simplifies the development process by using symbols (runes) to guide the Svelte compiler.
- The new API expands reactivity outside of .svelte files and allows its use in .js and .ts files. It introduces $derived and $effect runes to set dependencies during runtime, rather than compile-time.
- Runes, an implementation detail, offer efficient and user-friendly reactivity, making some older Svelte concepts obsolete. Though Svelte 5 isn't production-ready, a preview site is available for testing and feedback.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37584224)

- The discourse focuses on features of the Svelte 5 framework, such as signals, observables, and reactivity. Attendees debate over the complexity versus improved code clarity and performance.
- Comparison to other popular frameworks like React, Vue, and Solid is prevalent, with considerations on challenges in large web applications and the balance between simplicity and the learning curve.
- There is a mixed sentiment towards Svelte, with some users deciding to switch to alternate frameworks, however, the latest changes in Svelte are generally regarded as a positive progress, yet there is persistent conversation around the topic.

## [We have successfully completed our migration to RAM-only VPN infrastructure](https://mullvad.net/en/blog/2023/9/20/we-have-successfully-completed-our-migration-to-ram-only-vpn-infrastructure/)

- Mullvad VPN has completed its transition to a RAM-only VPN infrastructure, effectively eliminating the use of disks.
- To ensure premium performance, the VPN servers use a custom Linux kernel and undergo routine audits.
- Mullvad utilises a lightweight operating system of just over 200MB, offering a new-built kernel devoid of log files or vulnerabilities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37581485)

- The article outlines the transition of Mullvad.net to a RAM-only VPN infrastructure, underlining security vulnerabilities, legal challenges, and unethical behavior among VPN providers.
- It mentions the potential end-of-life scenario for commercial VPNs with the advent of HTTPS and encrypted DNS, emphasizing the requirement of transparency and security.
- The piece also discusses the pros and cons of using Linux versus BSD for VPN services and explores the challenges of validating and safeguarding software in a decentralized environment, suggesting solutions like homomorphic encryption and remote attestation.

## [RabbitMQ vs. Kafka – An Architect’s Dilemma (Part 1)](https://eranstiller.com/rabbitmq-vs-kafka-an-architects-dilemma-part-1)

- The article compares RabbitMQ and Kafka, widely utilized technologies for asynchronous messaging in software architecture, pointing out their key differences.
- RabbitMQ is portrayed as a versatile message broker supporting both message queuing and publish/subscribe patterns, while Kafka is depicted as a distributed streaming platform utilizing topics instead of queues.
- The discussion underscores the significance of understanding these distinctions for choosing the appropriate solution in various scenarios.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37574552)

- The article presents a comparison between various messaging systems such as RabbitMQ, Kafka, Pulsar, and NATS, each having distinct merits and tradeoffs in message processing, scalability, and data retention.
- It argues that the selection of a messaging system should be based on the particular needs and requirements of a given project.
- It also brings forth challenges and aspects that architects must consider when deciding between messaging systems, enriched by comments and suggestions from users sharing their experiences and possible alternatives.

## [ElectricSQL, Postgres to SQLite active-active sync for local-first apps](https://electric-sql.com/)

- ElectricSQL is a new open-source synchronization layer designed to help developers create reactive, realtime, and offline-capable apps using Postgres.
- By utilizing a Conflict-free Replicated Data Type (CRDT)-based synchronization algorithm, ElectricSQL guarantees data consistency and facilitates bidirectional synchronization with SQLite databases.
- The team behind ElectricSQL, which includes CRDT inventors, offers various resources and demo applications for users to discover and learn.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37584049)

- ElectricSQL is an open-source sync layer facilitating two-way synchronization between Postgres and SQLite databases, aiding in the creation of reactive and real-time applications.
- The team behind ElectricSQL aims to extend its functionality by developing clients for native iOS and Android applications and intends to handle larger data volumes and support partial synchronization in future updates.
- ElectricSQL is distinguished from the VLCN project in its development model, handling of migration, and methods of replication.

## [Circles do not exist](https://nibblestew.blogspot.com/2023/09/circles-do-not-exist.html)

- The author highlights the inaccuracies in portraying circles in print and digital designs, a consequence of the constraints within PostScript and PDF drawing models.
- These inaccuracies may hold impactful consequences in precise applications like laser cutting and CAD drawings where perfect circular shapes are crucial.
- The author puts forth a question regarding whether PDF rendering implementations genuinely use circles or merely approximate them through Bézier curves.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37575377)

- The discussions encompass a wide array of subjects touching on circle representation in Computer-Aided Design (CAD) software, the applicability of USC (United States customary units) in science and engineering fields, and the accuracy of textbook illustrations.
- There are debates concerning the precision requirements, limitations of various software libraries, and the confusion introduced by the simultaneous use of multiple unit systems.
- Disputes also arise about the use of PDF files in both CAD and laser cutting, along with philosophical deliberations about the concept of a 'perfect circle.

## [uBlock Origin filters to remove distractions](https://github.com/mig4ng/ublock-origin-filters)

- The individual has created a repository of filter lists to help block distractions on certain websites, allowing for more focused use of platforms.
- While they removed social media platforms such as Instagram, Facebook, and TikTok, they aim to filter out distractions on sites like Twitter and YouTube.
- The creator encourages others to contribute suggestions or interact through open issues, pull requests, or email to improve and refine the filter list.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37584134)

- The text primarily discusses various browser extensions, with a particular emphasis on the uBlock Origin extension used to block elements on websites like YouTube and Facebook.
- Users talk about their experiences, suggest filter lists and rules, and discuss the challenges and potential risks of using multiple extensions for enhancing browsing experiences.
- There is a detailed introduction to customizing the browsing experience on platforms like YouTube using CSS selectors and coding, offering instructions with examples and screenshots.

## [Add extra stuff to a “standard” encoding? Sure, why not](https://rachelbythebay.com/w/2023/09/19/badlib/)

- The author experienced issues with protocol buffers implementation in a different programming language, citing an extra byte in the encoding as the cause of decoding problems.
- It was found out that the library they were using added an unstandardized length byte to the message, contributing to these issues.
- Upon identifying a workaround, the problem was successfully addressed.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37580123)

- The dialogue discusses several characteristics of the Protobuf encoding system, including its use of delimited format and consideration of message length encoding.
- The article brings up concerns of redundancy, ambiguity, and compatibility issues between Protobuf and other protocols or libraries.
- There's a debate about the effectiveness of Protobuf.js, with mentions of alternatives like KRPC. Also noted is that applications are open for YC Winter 2024.

## [A simple web server written in Awk](https://github.com/crossbowerbt/awk-webserver)

- The article is about a simple webserver crafted in GNU awk, displaying the capabilities of the awk language, supporting directory listing and file downloads.
- The script requires a TCP wrapper for execution and can be accessed via a browser on the local port 8888.
- Despite no releases or published packages, the project has garnered interest, as indicated by the 157 stars, 4 watchers, and 9 forks on its repository.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37579595)

- The article emphasizes a web server written in Awk, highlighting its utility for low-resource environments by enabling the setup of web applications with minimal resources.
- Users discussed the benefits and limitations of the BusyBox system while sharing experiences with the Awk programming language.
- Suggestions for alternative web serving methods like cURL, socat, and Python are also mentioned as possible substitutes.

## [British journalist held by police at Luton airport for five hours without arrest](https://www.theguardian.com/media/2023/sep/20/british-journalist-held-by-police-at-luton-airport-for-five-hours-without-arrest)

- British journalist Matt Broomfield was detained at Luton airport and his digital devices seized under schedule 7 of the Terrorism Act 2000, which gives counter-terrorism officers the power to question people at airports for up to six hours.
- The National Union of Journalists expressed concerns over this power being overused, impacting press freedom, and has reached out to counter-terrorism policing leaders demanding an explanation and immediate return of Broomfield's devices.
- Furthermore, this incident has brought attention to the frequent stopping of British Kurds under the same law.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37584038)

- A British journalist was detained for five hours at Luton airport without arrest, instigating worries about the harassment of journalists, believed to be due to pressure from Turkey.
- This incident underscores the significance of media freedom, and highlights potential failings in security measures, eliciting diverse views on immigration and its related difficulties.
- It signifies the increasing trend of censorship and suppression in journalism, and puts into perspective the ineffective media practices, such as focusing on sensational content, deemed to cause current issues in Europe.

## [Ruby 3.3's YJIT Runs Shopify's Production Code 15% Faster](https://railsatscale.com/2023-09-18-ruby-3-3-s-yjit-runs-shopify-s-production-code-15-faster/)

- Shopify has implemented YJIT, a just-in-time compiler for Ruby, in their vital services, leading to a 15% boost in performance.
- Other firms like Discourse and CompanyCam have seen substantial speed increases thanks to YJIT. The latest Ruby 3.3 YJIT has shown a 13% speed improvement over its predecessor.
- The performance leap in Ruby 3.3 YJIT is due to a new register allocator and expanded competency in compiling different kinds of Ruby code. Shopify anticipates further upgrades with the forthcoming release of Ruby 3.3.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37579926)

- Shopify reported a 15% performance increase in their production code through the optimization of Ruby with YJIT, indicating the value of runtime optimization in business success.
- The discussion involves the scalability of Ruby on Rails, balancing trade-offs between speed, scalability, and memory management, and the potential use of other languages, such as Go or Rust.
- The dialogue also debates the trade-off between productivity and scalability, providing examples of different programming languages and frameworks.

## [A small community of unofficial Apple technicians in Cuba](https://restofworld.org/2023/underground-apple-techs-cuba/)

- Apple technicians in Cuba are in high demand due to the challenges of acquiring and maintaining Apple products, due to the lack of official Apple stores and resellers.
- These technicians rely on an unofficial network of suppliers and individuals who travel abroad for replacement parts, and they have devised ingenious strategies to bypass issues like blocked IPs and restricted software update access.
- Undeterred by import limitations on equipment and parts, these technicians have built thriving repair businesses and continue to find creative solutions for their clients.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37577354)

- The discussion focuses on the group of unofficial Apple technicians in Cuba, underlining the effects of trade embargoes and informal importation of used items.
- It also delves into Puerto Rico's relationship with the United States, scrutinizing the support provided after Hurricane Ian and the political landscape of Puerto Rico.
- The conversation is characterized by criticism towards the US trade embargo on Cuba as well as the Cuban regime.

## [SeaGOAT – local, “AI-based” grep for semantic code search](https://github.com/kantord/SeaGOAT)

- SeaGOAT is an open-source code search engine that utilizes vector embeddings for semantic search in codebases, compatible with Linux, macOS, and Windows.
- The tool maintains privacy and security by not relying on remote APIs and not sending data to external servers. It uses ChromaDB's model for vector embeddings and supports multiple programming languages.
- SeaGOAT, under the MIT license and actively updated on GitHub, requires a server for quick responses, but it can also run offline. It is essential to note that it is not a code generator and does not create AI-derived work.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37583219)

- SeaGOAT is an AI-powered grep tool designed for semantic code search, leveraging embeddings to enhance nearest neighbor lookup and support complex queries.
- The tool presently supports multiple programming languages, and future plans include adding additional features like codebase analysis and PDF file support.
- There is potential for integration of SeaGOAT with speech recognition engines and text editors, as suggested by some users.

## [100 Parking Tickets (2004)](https://100parkingtickets.com/)

- The writer, who owns a personalized license plate with the initials "NV," is continually receiving a plethora of parking tickets from different locations across California, despite their car's make and color not matching the ones on the tickets.
- Attempts to address this issue with the respective city officials and the DMV led to more complications such as the risk of wage garnishment and the diversion of tax refunds.
- Frustrated by their situation, the writer has decided to share their experiences online with the goal of finding someone who might be interested in purchasing their accumulated parking violations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37580113)

- The discussion compiled includes various subjects, from difficulties with names and identification to issues with license plate reading systems.
- Another highlighted concern revolves around frustrations with parking enforcement systems and domain name ownership controversy, particularly "Nissan.com".
- The discourse not only shares anecdotes and personal experiences but also accounts for suggestions and criticisms, providing a comprehensive insight into the mentioned topics.

## [78% MNIST accuracy using GZIP in under 10 lines of code](https://jakobs.dev/solving-mnist-with-gzip/)

- The article discusses an experiment utilizing GZIP for data point compression and Normalized Compression Distance (NCD) as a similarity metric on the MNIST dataset.
- The algorithm, by computing the NCD among every test and training sample, shortlisted the k smallest distances, and reckoned the prevalent class among the neighbors as the output.
- The experiment resulted in an approximate accuracy of 78% with this method, indicating its potential as a classification mechanism.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37583593)

- The article centers on a code that used GZIP compression to attain 78% accuracy on the MNIST (Modified National Institute of Standards and Technology) dataset using fewer than 10 lines of code.
- The focus of the article is on the potential of compression for classification tasks, even in the light of other techniques with higher accuracy rates.
- The forum critiques the use of acronyms in machine learning discussions, debating their definition in blog posts, and also delves into compression and optical character recognition.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Can’t send email more than 500 miles (2002)" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Can%E2%80%99t%20send%20email%20more%20than%20500%20miles%20(2002)&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20September%2020%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
