---
slug: '/2023/09/21'
---

# 2023-09-21

## [Car allergic to vanilla ice cream (2000)](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~wkw/humour/carproblems.txt)

- A customer reported his Pontiac car failed to start only when he bought vanilla ice cream, but functioned as expected with other flavors.
- An investigation by an engineer revealed that the car had a vapor lock issue, caused by the engine overheating as vanilla ice cream was quickly purchased due to its accessibility at the store front.
- The situation underscores the point that even seemingly absurd technical problems can have logical and real explanations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37584399)

- This Hacker News discussion shines a light on various instances where environmental conditions cause electronic devices to malfunction, including direct sunlight affecting a mouse, darkness causing an iPhone to enter a boot loop, and hot weather triggering internet outages.
- The conversation also explores other issues such as moisture causing problems in copper cables, sunlight affecting sensors, challenges in troubleshooting outdated technology, and power cuts leading to server issues in a small municipality.
- Additional notable topics cover car battery drainage, insufficient compensation from Subaru, and dropped charges due to confusion between attorneys, along with debunking the myth of Chevrolet Nova's failure in Spanish-speaking markets.

## [DALL·E 3](https://openai.com/dall-e-3)

- OpenAI has introduced DALL·E 3, an advanced text-to-image generator, notable for its precision and detailed image creation.
- Built on ChatGPT, DALL·E 3 can be leveraged for brainstorming and refining prompts. Safety measures have been taken to avoid creating violent, adult, or hateful content.
- The new system aims to identify AI-generated images and offer creative control to creators, and will be available to ChatGPT Plus and Enterprise customers in October through the API.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37586900)

- OpenAI's DALL·E 3 image generation model and its integration with ChatGPT is the key topic, with discussions on its capabilities, limits, and potential effects on text-to-image platforms.
- Debates center on ethical and legal aspects, such as copyright issues, responsible AI usage, the ability for creators to exclude their images from datasets, and the implications of AI-generated content on various sectors.
- Other areas of interest involve AI safety, OpenAI's strategies, the artistic caliber of DALL-E outputs, detailed breakdowns of its technical capacity, and criticisms concerning OpenAI's attempts to limit other AI firms.

## [ElectricSQL, Postgres to SQLite active-active sync for local-first apps](https://electric-sql.com/)

- ElectricSQL is an open-source synchronization layer enabling developers to create real-time, offline-capable, and responsive applications using Postgres and SQLite.
- This sync layer, built with Elixir, guarantees data consistency even amidst conflicting edits or prolonged offline usage.
- The team of ElectricSQL includes the inventors of Conflict-Free Replicated Data Types (CRDTs), and specialists in local-first software development.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37584049)

- ElectricSQL is an open-source, local-first sync layer that provides two-way active-active sync between Postgres and SQLite, enabling real-time, offline-capable apps, and implements schema changes and data sync control, even under extended offline periods.
- It leverages CRDT-based sync technology for handling conflicting edits, and is praised for adopting the local-first approach, compatibility with React-based low-code tools, and Offline-first architectures, by syncing with remote servers using a simple and generic server for all clients.
- Although under development, ElectricSQL is actively responsive to user feedback, supports IndexedDB for the virtual filesystem in the browser, and plans to support other drivers in the future, making it compatible with any JavaScript or TypeScript framework.

## [Svelte 5: Runes](https://svelte.dev/blog/runes)

- Svelte 5 introduces a feature named "runes," enhancing reactivity and simplifying the creation of reusable components in Svelte applications.
- The reactivity feature in Svelte 5 is powered by signals, a concept similar to Knockout's 2010 implementation, but signals are handled with better efficiency in Svelte 5.
- While not ready for production use, a preview site and an interactive playground are available for exploring these new features in Svelte 5.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37584224)

- The conversation primarily rotates around the recent release of Svelte 5, a JavaScript framework, addressing its pros and cons concerning reactivity and state management.
- Participants compare Svelte 5 with other well-known frameworks like React and Vue, discussing observable patterns, two-way data binding, and performance.
- Several discussions further unfold about the complexity and compatibility of different JavaScript frameworks, demonstrating a clear demand for standardized solutions and more intuitive syntax.

## [My uBlock Origin filters to remove distractions](https://github.com/mig4ng/ublock-origin-filters)

- The individual has formed a repository, a storage place where digital data is kept, of filter lists to eliminate distractions from specific websites.
- They have chosen to exclude elements of social platforms such as Instagram, Facebook, and TikTok from their digital consumption.
- Yet, they still retain desire to use sections of platforms like Twitter and YouTube, and openly welcome suggestions, bug identifications, pull requests (a method of submitting contributions to a software project), or emails.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37584134)

- The conversation mainly revolves around the use of uBlock Origin filters and other ad-blocking tools on various platforms, primarily aimed at enhancing user experience by eliminating ads and other distractions from websites.
- Users shared specific tools, filters, reader modes, browser extensions, and alternative platforms for a secure and improved browsing experience, with emphasis on privacy.
- Orion, a specific browser suitable for iOS was discussed, along with a brief deviation from topic to mention that YC Winter 2024 applications are open.

## [Toyota Research claims breakthrough in teaching robots new behaviors](https://www.tri.global/news/toyota-research-institute-unveils-breakthrough-teaching-robots-new-behaviors)

- The user's request for a specific application or website could not be completed due to server connectivity problems or excessive traffic.
- The user has been advised to retry later or reach out to the app or website owner.
- CloudFront, a content delivery network by Amazon, raised this error and provided a request ID for debugging purposes.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37586264)

- Toyota Research has revealed a significant advancement in teaching robots new behaviors using a generative AI method called Diffusion Policy, which is credited to Professor Shuran Song and her lab at Columbia University.
- The discourse delves into the complexity of robotic tasks, the impact of automation and AI on replacing human labor across several industries, and the economic implications, including job displacement.
- The dialogue also veers towards the potential of creating humanoid robots with advanced capabilities, the need for governmental support, future roles of technology, and the prospective benefits of robots in emergency services and reproduction tasks.

## [Terraria developer bashes Unity, donates $200k to open source alternatives](https://lemm.ee/post/8670706)

- Game developer Re-Logic has publicly criticized game engine Unity for its recent updates to its terms of service and monetization fees.
- In defiance, Re-Logic donated $200k to open source game engines Godot and FNA, to support developers and oppose what they perceive as unfair monetization by Unity.
- Opinions are divided in the gaming community, with some praising Re-Logic's move and others questioning whether the financial contributions will materially aid Godot and FNA. The incident underscores the industry's ongoing dialogue on fair business conduct for game engines.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37593133)

- The developer of Terraria has publicly criticized the Unity game engine, expressing support for open-source alternatives by donating to them, creating a stir in the user community.
- User sentiment towards Unity is reportedly negative due to recent changes in pricing and revenue sharing strategies, perceived as an attempt to compel developers towards Unity's ad network.
- The open-source game engine Godot is gaining interest and has been commended for its improvements, being seen as a potential competitor to Unity with speculation about the future role and performance of Unity as a game engine.

## [78% MNIST accuracy using GZIP in under 10 lines of code](https://jakobs.dev/solving-mnist-with-gzip/)

- The author shares an experiment that utilizes compression for classification on the MNIST dataset, using GZIP and NCD (Normalized Compression Distance) as a similarity metric and k-NN (k-Nearest Neighbors) for classifying the data.
- The implemented algorithm calculates the NCD between test and training samples and predicts labels based on the majority class of the nearest neighbors, achieving approximately 78% accuracy.
- The post also references a previous experiment with a similar but less successful approach, and presents a less obscured version of their algorithm for better understanding.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37583593)

- The article explores the application of the GZIP compression algorithm in classifying MNIST digits, and compares it with other distance measures.
- It concludes that simpler models, such as logistic regression, may be as effective and that increased complexity doesn't guarantee improved results.
- The writeup also delves into the use of compression algorithms for language and image classification tasks, with comments highlighting concerns over lossy compression and the need for clear acronym definitions.

## [UK Parliament undermined the privacy, security, freedom of all internet users](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2023/09/today-uk-parliament-undermined-privacy-security-and-freedom-all-internet-users)

- The UK Parliament has passed the Online Safety Bill (OSB), which according to them will make the UK the safest place to be online. However, critics argue that this could lead to increased internet censorship for British users.
- The bill allows the government to demand tech companies scan all user's messages and files, potentially compromising end-to-end encryption. Experts argue that this can threaten privacy and security universally.
- The OSB grants the government the authority to censor content and implement age-gating systems, potentially restricting access to anonymous and private speech, posing potential threats to rights and security.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37592699)

- The UK Parliament has approved the disputed Online Safety Bill, compelling technology firms to scan users for child abuse material, potentially leading to broader scanning motives, and fueling concerns about privacy and internet freedom.
- The Bill authorizes the government to mandate firms to create tech able to bypass encryption, met with criticism as a perceived power gain under the guise of protection and lack of technical knowledge among politicians.
- Citizens express indifference and a sense of helplessness, calling for a boycott of major tech companies. The discourse revolves around dissatisfaction with surveillance measures, the government, privacy priority, lack of activism, restricted online access, encryption laws, and jurisdictional matters.

## [British journalist held by police at Luton airport for five hours without arrest](https://www.theguardian.com/media/2023/sep/20/british-journalist-held-by-police-at-luton-airport-for-five-hours-without-arrest)

- British freelancer journalist, Matt Broomfield, was detained by counter-terrorism police at Luton airport under schedule 7 of the Terrorism Act 2000, which allows for questioning without arrest at airports.
- Broomfield was held for five hours, his electronic devices were seized, and he was questioned about his reporting, specifically about the Kurdish issue, and his opinions of the British state.
- The National Union of Journalists has intervened, writing to the counter-terrorism police to demand a justification for the detainment and the return of his belongings, as the powers provided by schedule 7 are criticized as overused and potentially tantamount to harassment.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37584038)

- The summary mainly discusses press freedom, government overreach, immigration, asylum, and international cooperation, emphasizing the situation in Turkey.
- The conversation highlights dilemmas journalists face, immigration and asylum policy challenges, as well as diverse views on international agreements involving human rights violations, military power, and Turkish alliances.
- It critiques The Guardian's coverage of a detained journalist, presenting varied perspectives and opinions on these subjects.

## [Harlequin: DuckDB IDE for the terminal](https://harlequin.sh/)

- Harlequin is a potent and multipurpose IDE for DuckDB, designed for terminal use, offering functionalities like data catalog, query editor, and results viewer.
- It facilitates the connection to MotherDuck databases, and users can view/export query results. It also allows for style selection and could replace the DuckDB CLI.
- The IDE has been well-received and recommended by users, indicating its efficiency and user-friendly features.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37588526)

- Harlequin is a SQL Integrated Development Environment (IDE) specifically designed for DuckDB, a high-performance analytical database management system.
- It incorporates three main components: a data catalog, a text editor, and a results viewer.
- User feedback highly appreciates DuckDB's superior performance and compression capabilities, indicating optimism about its feature set and potential uses.

## [Gokrazy is cool](https://xeiaso.net/blog/gokrazy)

- The article explores Linux distributions and introduces gokrazy, a Linux variant designed for simplicity and efficiency.
- It gives guidance on setting up a gokrazy machine and the installation of various addons including golink, tmemes, and tclip that facilitate the generation of a URL for pasted text.
- The piece expresses enthusiasm for gokrazy's future updates and its potential for welcoming more services into its ecosystem.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37583234)

- Gokrazy is a platform that facilitates easy code deployment on Raspberry Pi by producing pre-configured system images and providing network updates, highly valued by its users for its convenience and reliability.
- There's an ongoing debate about the benefits of using Gokrazy to run Go programming language applications, focusing on the trade-offs between bare metal services and debugging tools.
- The discussion elaborates on technical challenges of cross-compiling and dependencies, the role of GNU utilities in Linux systems, deployment model BOOTBOOT, and the intricacies of accessing production systems.

## [XML is better than YAML – Hear me out](https://changelog.com/posts/xml-better-than-yaml)

- The author emphasizes that XML has its strengths and is ideal for specific instances like annotating verses in books, stating that it is more suitable than YAML which could sometimes have errors.
- The author advocates for alternatives such as TOML and CUE and mentions the utilization of JSON as a canonical language with adapters in Caddy.
- The author ends by encouraging reader participation by voting on their preference while discussing YAML's shortcomings, asserting that while XML can be appropriate, YAML never is.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37586580)

- The discussion revolves around various configuration file formats, notably XML, YAML, JSON, and TOML, with participants sharing their preferences and criticisms on these formats' syntax, readability, and functionality.
- The debate extends to issues in representing dates and times in these formats and the need for improved tools to better handle these formats.
- The dialogue ultimately focuses on highlighting the advantages and disadvantages of different configuration file formats and addresses the challenges they pose.

## [Car showed pop-up while driving](https://glitterkitten.co.uk/@ellavescent/111091652921668380)

- A user on the Mastodon social network raised privacy concerns over Hyundai cars showing pop-ups for new terms and conditions while in motion.
- The discussions primarily revolved around the distinctions between licenses and EULAs, potential legal ramifications, and modifications for electric vehicles. Users also criticized Hyundai for unethical practices and the disregard for user safety.
- The suggested solution includes installing alternative satnav systems to mitigate privacy concerns, demonstrating the inconvenience and safety risks of reading lengthy terms during essential tasks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37587510)

- The discussions encompass a range of electronic device-related topics including detrimental effects of pop-up messages, legality and need for cookie banners, frustrations with car user interfaces, and limitations of modern car infotainment systems.
- Participants express concerns about data collection protocols, intrusive features, advocating for increased regulation and user choice.
- Other noted topics include the use of imperial and metric units in the UK, the ramifications of new car purchases on older models, and the challenges and associated costs of electric vehicles.

## [Terry Tao's generals (2012)](https://web.math.princeton.edu/generals/tao_terence)

- Terry Tao's examiners probed him on topics such as harmonic analysis and singular integrals during his examination, with some concepts unfamiliar to them.
- The scope of the discussion also extended to other simple groups, specifically exploring if a group of order 168 can be classified as sporadic.
- Despite an underwhelming performance in harmonic analysis, the examiners decided to give Tao a pass with the total duration of examination being 2 hours.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37591652)

- The thread contains anecdotes and discussions about prominent figures in diverse fields, including mathematician Terry Tao and theoretical physicist J. Robert Oppenheimer.
- It highlights the issues PhD graduates in Economics face in job hunting and societal expectations alongside a debate on the historical and philosophical basis of "PhD."
- Terence Tao's experience with oral exams during his PhD at Princeton is emphasized, showing the immense pressure and rigorous study involved in such programs. This includes discussions about advanced mathematics and Tao's achievements.

## [SeaGOAT – local, “AI-based” grep for semantic code search](https://github.com/kantord/SeaGOAT)

- SeaGOAT is a local code search engine enabling semantic searching of codebases through vector embeddings, independent from any third-party APIs or remote servers.
- The tool requires Python 3.11 or newer, additional dependencies, and works across Linux, macOS, and Windows operating systems. It supports various programming languages and ensures minimal impact on CPU usage during file processing.
- SeaGOAT operates as a search engine, not a code generator. Usage of the tool involves running a server for quick responses and managing code queries via the "gt" or "seagoat" commands.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37583219)

- SeaGOAT, an AI-based grep tool used for semantic code search, is currently receiving requests for features including CUDA acceleration, simpler database sharing, support for intricate queries, and compatibility with GitHub repositories.
- There are some limitations when using GPT3 for sentence embedding in code searches, and countermeasures like embedding whitening and training neural networks on codebase embeddings are suggested.
- Other topics like collaborative projects and marriage of speech recognition with code search are being considered in the discourse around SeaGOAT.

## [Alameda lost tens of millions because of a fat fingering mistake](https://www.adityabaradwaj.com/part-2-the-fat-finger/)

- Alameda Research faced a market crash as a result of a trader incorrectly selling a significant block of Bitcoin (BTC) at notably less than its market value due to a decimal point error.
- Despite the initial significant drop in BTC price, its value swiftly rebounded through the actions of arbitrageurs; however, this "fat-finger" trade led to considerable losses for Alameda.
- In response to the incident, Alameda has instituted additional precautions for manual trades to prevent such errors in the future, a strategy which reflects FTX and Alameda's philosophy of moving swiftly while tolerating occasional setbacks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37590544)

- Alameda, a cryptocurrency investment firm, experienced a significant loss due to a transaction error, underscoring the risks and potential vulnerabilities within the cryptocurrency market.
- The discussion emphasizes the need for improved safeguards and risk management in cryptocurrency trading, drawing parallels to similar issues experienced in gambling and financial trading sectors.
- The article flag up concerns about potential manipulation, scams, and lack of transparency within the cryptocurrency trading ecosystem, using specific examples of trading errors that have led to significant consequences such as a drastic bitcoin price drop.

## [Install Windows the Arch Linux Way](https://christitus.com/install-windows-the-arch-linux-way/)

- The article provides a tutorial on how to install Windows purely through the command line. This allows users to avoid modifications enacted by Windows on the installer or Out of Box Experience.
- The guide covers various steps including partitioning, confirming the version of Windows to be installed, duplicating the operating system files, copying boot files to the EFI (Extensible Firmware Interface) partition, and circumventing the Out of Box Experience.
- A video walkthrough is also included in the article to visually guide users through the process.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37593459)

- The article highlights difficulties during the installation of Windows 10, including issues with large ISO file sizes, FAT32 file system incompatibilities, and accidental wiping of Linux installs.
- Future problems are pointed out with the upcoming 13-inch AMD Framework laptop, lacking drivers for the AMD/Mediatek RZ616 Wi-Fi card in the official Windows 11 installation image.
- Users' discussions spotlight troubles with partitioning, compatibility, UEFI firmware limitations, and different file systems for flash drives. It suggests manual installation methods as more reliable and customizable, whereas GUI installers could be more convenient for beginners.

## [Linux gives up on 6-year LTS kernels, says they’re too much work](https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2023/09/linux-gives-up-on-6-year-lts-thats-fine-for-pcs-bad-for-android/)

- The Linux kernel is shortening its long-term support (LTS) period from six years to two years, caused by limited usage, support issues and challenges posed to unpaid maintainers.
- The shift could affect Android devices that generally have longer development cycles and require support for older kernels.
- Google has improved its Android kernel development process with the Generic Kernel Image (GKI) and plans to shift to mainline Linux, which could mitigate this change's impacts. The LTS modification could potentially influence the support timeline for embedded and Android devices down the line.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37591050)

- The discourse explores the challenges and significance of long-term software support, encompassing various scenarios, including Linux's decision to cease support for 6-year Long Term Support (LTS) kernels.
- It discusses the contrast between Windows and Linux's backward compatibility, maintenance issues of kernel support for smartphones, and the lack of software support in cheaper phones.
- It reflects on problems faced when dealing with antiquated systems in enterprise consulting, sustainable mobile device design, implications of hastening software development, and the crucial role of formal verification in programming, emphasizing the necessity for enhanced long-term software support and possible solutions.

## [We are not sustainable](https://frame.work/nl/en/blog/we-are-not-sustainable)

- Framework Laptop company is committed to sustainability in the tech world; they have conducted a life cycle analysis to comprehend and reduce their environmental impact.
- The company has offered updates on the manufacturing of their new laptop model, introducing a firmware solution to diminish power consumption.
- Notably, a community member has pioneered a modular gaming handheld device using components from the Framework Laptop, illustrating the versatility of their components.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37588374)

- The talks are centered on various themes tied to sustainability, including CO2 emissions impact, decreasing car usage, alternative transportation means, tech practices, laptop sustainability, and carbon credits and greenwashing concept.
- Participants exchange diverse views on these subjects, discussing challenges, possible solutions, and differing thoughts on the effectiveness of certain actions.
- The dialogue underlines the necessity for sustainable methods in different industries to lessen waste and curb environmental damage.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Car allergic to vanilla ice cream (2000)" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Car%20allergic%20to%20vanilla%20ice%20cream%20(2000)&subheading=Thursday%2C%20September%2021%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
