---
slug: '/2023/09/24'
---

# 2023-09-24

## [iCloud Drive silently deletes your content](https://www.dominikmayer.com/2023/09/icloud-drive-silently-deletes-your-content/)

- The article addresses an issue with iCloud Drive where it is quietly erasing user's content because of file conflicts.
- The author draws from personal experiences of losing vital files and recommends users relocate crucial data from iCloud Drive until the problem is rectified.
- A proposed mitigation strategy is the setup of a Git repository, a version control system, which helps to track changes in files and prevent data loss.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37626273)

- Users are voicing concerns about iCloud Drive, reporting problems like unwarranted content deletion and possible security vulnerabilities.
- There is a debate on the effectiveness of using Apple's Switch Control feature for remote support, problems with Apple's software, data syncing issues with git repositories, and deficiencies in terms of end-to-end encryption and conflict management mechanisms.
- Users are suggesting alternatives like syncthing for data sync and storage, reflecting an overall dissatisfaction and trust deficit in iCloud Drive, and reinforcing the importance of data reliability and security.

## [Blocking Visual Studio Code embedded reverse shell before it's too late](https://ipfyx.fr/post/visual-studio-code-tunnel/)

- The article discusses the security risks associated with the reverse shell feature in Microsoft's Visual Studio Code.
- It advises utilizing domain blocking and whitelisting technology to minimize these risks, though noting that Applocker's rule might not be applicable, making hash conditions a possible necessity.
- It emphasizes that Visual Studio Code currently doesn't have inbuilt controls for this feature and advocates for enhanced security measures.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37623562)

- The main topic is the embedded reverse shell feature's security vulnerabilities within Visual Studio Code, a popular text editor and Integrated Development Environment (IDE).
- There's a varied perspective regarding the risks this feature might pose, with some participants expressing worries about potential unauthorized access and data theft.
- The discussion additionally encompasses broader security matters in text editors and IDEs, underscoring the effectiveness of security measures and the significance of avoiding breaches.

## [Bottlerocket – Minimal, immutable Linux OS with verified boot](https://bottlerocket.dev)

- Bottlerocket is a Linux-based operating system specifically designed for hosting containers, ideal for container orchestrators like Kubernetes.
- The OS is characterized by minimal overhead, safe updates, and a pronounced concentration on security features including the use of compiled languages, an immutable root filesystem, and enforced SELinux policies.
- It offers various customized variants suited to different environments and can be managed through privileged host containers. Updates are delivered via images and can be reverted if necessary.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37626731)

- Bottlerocket is a Linux-based operating system, developed by AWS specifically designed to run containers, with similarities to CoreOS and Flatcar Linux.
- Unique features of Bottlerocket include vulnerability scanning and an A/B partition scheme for updates, however, it currently lacks a discernible path to becoming a standalone product and has challenges in incorporating FIPS support.
- Discussions around Bottlerocket also highlight uncertainties on its deployment outside AWS, its compatibility within the AWS environment, absence of host machine shell, security features, and a comparison with NixOS.

## [SpamChannel: Spoofing emails from 2M domains and virtually becoming Satan [pdf]](https://media.defcon.org/DEF%20CON%2031/DEF%20CON%2031%20presentations/byt3bl33d3r%20-%20SpamChannel%20Spoofing%20Emails%20From%202%20Million%20Domains%20and%20Virtually%20Becoming%20Satan.pdf)


### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37628337)

- The discourse focuses on a hacker who forged emails from two million domains using an unnoticed technique, thus raising questions about the efficacy of conventional email authentication methods.
- It recommends increasing reliance on DKIM and DMARC and discusses the need for standardization in domain verification, underlining the vulnerabilities in email security.
- The potential benefits and problems with ARC technology in enhancing spam filtering are also discussed, reinforcing the need for improved strategies to counter spam.

## [Do not put plastic in the microwave](https://www.bonappetit.com/story/can-you-put-plastic-in-the-microwave)

- A study from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln revealed microwaving plastic containers releases microplastics and nanoplastics into food, potentially disrupting endocrine systems and posing health risks.
- The "microwave-safe" label on plastic containers only indicates the plastic's heat resistance, not its safety. Such containers could still release harmful particles, including bisphenols and phthalates.
- Types one and six plastics pose higher health risks when microwaved, while types two and five are considered safer. Experts recommend the use of glass containers over plastics for microwaving food.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37624070)

- The discussion chiefly revolves around the safety concerns of using plastic containers in microwaves, and explores alternatives like glass containers.
- This post investigates the potential link between the use of plastics, the increase in cancer rates, and the implications of microplastics on health.
- It also evaluates the practicality and efficiency of microwave cooking while weighing the health risks and benefits of plastic use.

## [EU fines Intel $400M for blocking AMD's market access](https://www.neowin.net/news/eu-fines-intel-400-million-for-blocking-amds-market-access-through-payments-to-pc-makers/)

- The European Commission has imposed a $400 million fine on Intel for obstructing AMD's market entry by making payments to PC manufacturers from 2002 to 2007.
- It was determined that Intel bribed PC manufacturers to delay or restrict products using AMD processors, negatively impacting competition in the x86 CPU market.
- While Intel was fined $1.13 billion in 2009 for abuse of dominance, it still faces potential additional fines as the Commission has appealed the dismissal of the rebate component of the case.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37627745)

- The European Union has imposed a $400 million fine on Intel for stifling AMD's market access, triggering a conversation around anti-competitive practices in the technology industry.
- There's ongoing debate concerning the impact of such behaviors on AMD's growth, market manipulation allegations, and the lack of AMD laptops availability and options compared to Intel.
- The discourse further includes speculation about Intel's stagnant stock performance in the last 15 years, potential repercussions of selling products below cost, and calls for better support from AMD and concerns about Taiwan's geopolitical treatment.

## [Platform that enables Windows driver development in Rust](https://github.com/microsoft/windows-drivers-rs)

- "windows-drivers-rs" is a Rust-based repository that enables the development of Windows drivers, supporting both WDM (Windows Driver Model) and WDF (Windows Driver Framework) models.
- The repository offers several crates that bridge connections to the Windows Development Kit (WDK), including bindings, libraries, and macros.
- Still in the early development stages, "windows-drivers-rs" supports configurations for WDM, KMDF (Kernel-Mode Driver Framework), and UMDF (User-Mode Driver Framework) drivers, with intentions to include more configurations in the future. However, it's currently not recommended for commercial usage.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37629874)

- Microsoft has created a platform promoting the use of Rust for Windows driver development, emphasizing the challenges and benefits involved in writing drivers with Rust for both Windows and Linux systems.
- The discussion points out the pros of opting for a memory-managed language like C# in device driver development and tuples the argument with the significance of software performance.
- The discourse also explores the advantages of Rust in kernel development, the role of garbage collection in driver development, and outlines the potential of a microkernel approach and the Midori project.

## [Why scalpers can get tickets](https://www.404media.co/why-scalpers-can-get-olivia-rodrigo-tickets-and-fans-cannot/)

- Ticketmaster's "Verified Fan" system, initially designed to curtail scalping, is being manipulated by scalpers to their advantage.
- Scalpers use multiple accounts, specialized internet browsers, and bulk-purchased phone numbers to boost their odds of obtaining tickets for popular concerts.
- They can sell tickets even before they are officially on sale and substitute better tickets for the previously sold ones, indicating the system favors professional ticket buyers rather than average fans.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37623955)

- The conversation centers on the problem of ticket scalping, exploring varied motivations behind it and proposing potential solutions.
- Participants consider various strategies like linking the tickets to purchaser names and ID verification, dynamic pricing, and lotteries, advocating for substantial innovation in the ticketing platforms like Ticketmaster.
- The dialogue underscores the need for enhanced regulation while addressing the structural issues of the ticketing industry, highlighting the impact on both fans and artists.

## [IPFS support got merged into curl](https://twitter.com/bmann/status/1705572964068930010)

- IPFS (InterPlanetary File System), a protocol designed for decentralized file storage and sharing, has now been incorporated into curl software.
- This integration signifies the continuity and lasting importance of IPFS and content addressing technology in the web infrastructure.
- curl, a widely-used tool for transferring data over various network protocols, will expand the reach and utility of IPFS by supporting its decentralized, content-based addressing model.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37628525)

- Curl has added IPFS (InterPlanetary File System) support to its system, although there's ongoing debate over whether this implementation is true IPFS support or simply rewritten URLs.
- The current implementation lacks a verification feature to crosscheck if the output matches the IPFS address; continuous verification via IPFS gateways is proposed as an enhancement.
- There's discussion about the potential risks involved in adopting IPFS, and why users generally prefer using IPFS gateways over running IPFS nodes, as well as considering adding support for magnet and .onion URLs in the curl tool.

## [The vital art of talking to strangers (2021)](https://www.economist.com/books-and-arts/2021/07/10/the-vital-art-of-talking-to-strangers)

- The article delves into the significance and possible challenges of interacting with strangers, a subject detailed in three books.
- It focuses on the evolution of attitudes towards strangers that progress from caution in childhood to a yearning for interaction during adolescence and early adulthood.
- The thrill and possibility of escapism that arise from engaging with strangers is a key emphasis of the article.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37624201)

- The comments section discusses attitudes towards interacting with strangers in different areas, comparing urban and rural friendliness.
- Topics explored include overcoming social anxiety, awkwardness of airplane conversations, the benefits of unforeseen encounters, and advice for starting conversations.
- The discussion underscores the significance of positive interactions and highlights individual variations in preferences and priorities when engaging with strangers.

## [Spyware can infect your phone or computer via the ads you see online – report](https://theconversation.com/spyware-can-infect-your-phone-or-computer-via-the-ads-you-see-online-report-213685)

- Israeli tech company Insanet has created a spyware named Sherlock, which is distributed via online advertisement networks, turning specific ads into Trojan horses.
- Unlike traditional spyware exploiting phone vulnerabilities, Sherlock uses ad networks to covertly install itself, enabling access to the target's device content.
- Sherlock can infect computers and Android phones as well as iPhones, suspected to bear similarity to the previously identified Pegasus spyware, thereby raising concerns about civilian surveillance and potential misuse.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37623479)

- The article discusses the issue of spyware, specifically "Sherlock," exploiting online ads to infect devices, potentially through browser or operating system vulnerabilities.
- A change in ad-tech is advocated, introducing a new model called Sellff Offers. Defensive measures like disabling JavaScript and using ad-blockers are recommended.
- The discussion delves into the ethical implications, supporting content creators, and alternative monetization methods, with the author expressing preference for direct support to content creators rather than using adtech.

## [India fails to re-establish communication with its Moon probe](https://efe.com/en/science-and-technology/2023-09-22/india-fails-to-re-establish-communication-with-its-moon-probe/)

- The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has failed to re-establish communication with its lunar probe, the Vikram lander and Pragyan rover, effectively ending hopes for their continued operation.
- The Vikram lander and Pragyan rover were sent to the Moon's south pole, making ISRO the fourth entity globally to achieve landing success despite doubts about the vehicles' resilience against lunar's extreme temperatures.
- Efforts to reestablish contact with the said lunar vehicles will continue, signalling ISRO's persistent will to conquer the challenges presented in space exploration.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37623405)

- India's effort to re-establish communication with a lunar probe has been unsuccessful, yet the mission is still deemed successful.
- The discussion highlights the engineering challenges and the impacts of extreme cold temperatures on the moon, affecting vehicles and equipment performance.
- Radioisotope thermoelectric generators, an essential technology used in space exploration, are mentioned in the context of overcoming such adversarial conditions.

## [I rewrote the 1990's LambdaMOO server](https://github.com/rdaum/moor)

- The person has been involved in using and enhancing LambdaMOO, a multi-user virtual environment and programming system, since the early 90s.
- They are undertook a task to overhaul LambdaMOO to leverage the benefits of contemporary technologies and enhance its compatibility.
- The implementation, almost finished, is now written in Rust (a modern system programming language) and they are encouraging backing from individuals fascinated with this sort of virtual social environment.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37624400)

- The main topic of discussion is about an individual who recreated the LambdaMOO server using the Rust programming language to enhance the virtual social space system focusing on social interaction and shared programming.
- The individual who took on this project is seeking help and feedback, particularly regarding challenges with backward compatibility of the system.
- Participants converse about MOO engines, alternative programming languages, and the struggles in preserving existing LambdaMOO instances, expressing enthusiasm and sharing relevant LambdaMOO resources.

## [Google is killing Gmail's Basic HTML View in early 2024](https://support.google.com/mail/answer/15049?hl=en)

- Gmail users will be able to use the Basic HTML view until January 2024, after which the platform will automatically transition to the Standard view.
- If users encounter issues with loading the Standard view, they can troubleshoot their browser, internet connection, or device.
- The Basic HTML view lacks some features available in the Standard view, and users are advised to shift to the Gmail app or a different email client if problems persist.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37630914)

- Google has declared that it will cease Gmail's Basic HTML View, leading to discussions on webmail's future, email reliability versus messaging apps, and Google's role as an ad business.
- The discussions encompass recommendations for alternate email services, apprehensions about heavy JavaScript usage and subsequent slow loading times, and the emphasis on accommodating low bandwidth scenarios.
- Also mentioned are concerns for data-limited environments, the obligation of businesses to cater to various customer requirements, and miscellaneous subjects such as monopolies on cruise ships and accessibility in edge cases.

## [Worm that jumps from rats to slugs to human brains has invaded Southeast US](https://arstechnica.com/health/2023/09/worm-that-jumps-from-rats-to-slugs-to-human-brains-has-invaded-southeast-us/)

- The study published in Emerging Infectious Diseases confirms the establishment of the rat lungworm, a parasite capable of infecting human brains, in the Southeastern US.
- Evidence of the parasite was detected in seven out of 33 rats tested in the Atlanta zoo. The rat lungworm lives typically in rats, transfers to slugs or snails, and can infect humans if ingested, causing severe neurological dysfunction and even death.
- The study indicates that the parasite is spreading rapidly in the region.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37624506)

- A worm, Angiostrongylus cantonensis, prevalent in the Southeast US, has been infecting rats, slugs and even humans, potentially leading to symptoms such as headaches, insomnia, and in severe cases, meningitis.
- Infection from the worm can be contracted via consumption of undercooked snails or infected slugs, prompting individuals to thoroughly wash and prepare vegetables to avoid possible infection.
- There are rising concerns about the presence of snails and parasites in greens, transmission of diseases through these contaminated resources, and the potential impacts on local housing markets.

## [The Cambridge Law Corpus: A corpus for legal AI research](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.12269)

- The Cambridge Law Corpus, a new dataset for legal AI research, comprised of more than 250,000 UK court cases dated from the 16th century to current times, has been introduced.
- Apart from raw text and metadata, the corpus includes annotations on case outcomes on 638 cases, and the paper illustrates the process of training and testing case outcome extraction models using the annotated data.
- While comparative performance benchmarks for models like GPT-3, GPT-4, and RoBERTa are provided, the accessibility of the corpus is limited to research due to ethical considerations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37627129)

- The Cambridge Law Corpus, a comprehensive collection of legal texts, has been created explicitly for legal Artificial Intelligence (AI) research.
- Harvard Law's Library Innovation Lab has established the Caselaw Access Project, enabling access to a complete set of US caselaw, which had been challenging due to paywalls.
- The lab is also in the process of releasing the Collaborative Open Legal Dataset (COLD cases) for AI and Machine Learning (ML) projects, but access to the Cambridge Law Corpus is currently limited to researchers from recognized institutions.

## [CRISPR silkworms make spider silk that defies constraints](https://www.genengnews.com/topics/genome-editing/crispr-silkworms-make-spider-silk-that-defies-scientific-constraints/)

- Researchers have successfully manipulated silkworms through CRISPR technology to produce the first full-length spider silk, paving the way for sustainable production of robust lightweight materials.
- The spider silk created is over six times stronger than Kevlar and possesses high tensile strength, outperforming most other natural and synthetic fibers, making it a greener alternative to synthetic fibers like nylon and Kevlar.
- The achievement holds potential for the commercialization of spider silk, offering a sustainable option for diverse applications while furthering the development of 'supermaterials'.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37623314)

- Scientists have utilized CRISPR gene-editing technology to engineer silkworms that yield spider silk, a material 160% stronger than traditional silkworm silk.
- This advancement could be used in diverse areas, such as manufacturing sturdier materials for space elevators or weaving tanks for hydrogen storage.
- However, the application of spider silk may be restricted in scenarios that require high rigidity, due to its inherent lack of it.

## [A “CRM” for personal relationships](https://www.elim.app/eng/home)

- "The New Elim", a new app aimed at combating loneliness and prioritizing personal relationships, has been launched.
- The app offers features such as allowing users to identify and connect with significant persons in their life, daily reminders to stay connected, and sending virtual postcards with diverse designs.
- Currently in its initial phase, the developers of "The New Elim" are seeking user feedback to guide future enhancements.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37625283)

- Elim.app has released an MVP (Minimum Viable Product), which is designed to assist individuals focus on essential relationships, with features such as notifications and digital postcards.
- Users have suggested enhancements like the inclusion of manual contact entry and integration with messaging apps. The developers have shown intentions not to display ads or sell users' data, but are considering a premium subscription model.
- Concerns have been raised about the app's website being in German, leading to discussions about the potential and improvements of the app, as well as the limitations of leaning excessively on technology to address social issues.

## [The strange disappearance of Mrs Agatha Christie (2022)](https://blog.nationalarchives.gov.uk/20speople-investigating-the-strange-disappearance-of-mrs-agatha-christie/)

- This post delves into the enigmatic disappearance of renowned crime novelist Agatha Christie in 1926, the ensuing police investigation, and public intrigue with the case.
- The article contemplates different theories and conjecture regarding her disappearance, along with critiques about the police response and cost of the search.
- The author points out some inaccuracies in media coverage during that period.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37625291)

- The first article examines theories surrounding Agatha Christie's unexplained disappearance, including the possibility it was for publicity, providing historical context.
- The second piece delves into inconsistencies found within Sherlock Holmes stories and explores Arthur Conan Doyle's beliefs.
- The third and fourth discussions range widely, touching on alchemy, religion, and the works of renowned authors; debating police roles in Agatha Christie's disappearance and counting best-selling books and authors.

## [TSA Policy on Light Sabers](https://www.tsa.gov/travel/security-screening/whatcanibring/items/light-saber)

- The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) permits passengers to carry toy lightsabers in both carry-on and checked bags.
- The ultimate decision on whether an item can pass through security is in the hands of the TSA officer.
- This information is publicly provided on the official TSA website, a part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37624112)

- The central theme of the discussions is around the effectiveness and role of security procedures enforced by the TSA at airports.
- There are differing viewpoints, with some participants questioning the efficiency of these practices and others defending their significance.
- Additionally, the conversation covers topics such as government support schemes, the evolving nature of work, TSA's inconsistencies in applying rules, and details on specific items allowed or barred by the TSA.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="iCloud Drive silently deletes your content" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=iCloud%20Drive%20silently%20deletes%20your%20content&subheading=Sunday%2C%20September%2024%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
