---
slug: '/2023/09/28'
---

# 2023-09-28

## [Raspberry Pi 5](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/raspberry-pi-5/)

- The Raspberry Pi 5 is a newly released upgrade of the popular Raspberry Pi computer, delivering 2-3 times faster performance owing to an optimized silicon design.
- Accompanied with various accessories, its enhanced specifications feature a quad-core 64-bit CPU, dual 4K HDMI display output, dual-band Wi-Fi, USB ports, Gigabit Ethernet, camera/display transceivers, and a real-time clock.
- Operating optimally with the latest Raspberry Pi OS and a high-quality power supply, it advises using active cooling for optimal performance. Pre-orders may be accessible through authorized resellers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37685580)

- The Raspberry Pi community is debating about the forthcoming Raspberry Pi 5 release, focusing on its potential to address performance issues and supply chain problems individual's experience with previous models.
- Concerns raised by users include its pricing, features, and availability, comparing it to competition from other small form factor PCs like the HP Elitedesk 800 G3 Minis and Dell Wyse 5070. They highlight Raspberry Pi's significant GPIO capabilities and software support, despite concerns about its power and performance.
- Among the discussed anticipated features of the Raspberry Pi 5 is a new PCI Express interface for faster peripherals, which may enhance its performance. The necessity and possible restrictions of active cooling are also a subject of the discourse.

## [Mistral 7B](https://mistral.ai/news/announcing-mistral-7b/)

- Mistral AI has launched Mistral 7B, a high-performance language model that surpasses others in multiple benchmarks, demonstrating strong abilities in code and reasoning tasks.
- The model is licensable under an unrestricted Apache 2.0 license, making it freely utilisable and fine-tunable, and deployable on any cloud platform.
- Unique features of the model include Grouped-query attention and Sliding Window Attention, enhancing faster inference and handling of longer sequences, and a fine-tuned version for chat, Mistral 7B Instruct, has proven exceptional performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37675496)

- The discussions delve into key areas such as the definition of open source, the significance of source code, algorithm releases, and criteria for projects to be deemed as open source.
- Other focal points include reproducibility in machine learning, language model evaluation, and benchmarking, illustrated by Mistral AI's engagement with GPT-4.
- The performance and compatibility of Mistral-7B, a newer model, is also discussed alongside the exploration of efficient memory usage through specific software documentation.

## [Ray-Ban Meta Smart Glasses](https://www.meta.com/smart-glasses/)

- The Meta Quest Ray-BanMeta collection introduces smart glasses that blend the classic style with advanced technology.
- The glasses incorporate a 12 MP camera, allow hands-free calls and messaging, voice control with Meta AI, and live-streaming to Instagram and Facebook. They also have built-in speakers and open-ear audio.
- They also come with privacy controls for managing user information. Currently, the glasses can be pre-ordered in the US, Canada, and the UK.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37678860)

- The discourse encompasses various aspects of smart glasses, such as privacy issues, technological advances in their build, their functionality, limits, and possible utilization in photography or integration into various industries.
- Users have diverse views on privacy, comfort, recording capabilities, and potential uses of smart glasses, showing a variety of perspectives on the subject.
- Notably, the involvement of tech giants like Facebook and Apple in the development of smart glasses is also a significant topic of discussion.

## [Live near your friends](https://headlineshq.substack.com/p/issue-no-029-live-near-your-friends)

- The article underscores the significance of deep and meaningful friendships for mental health and happiness, while discussing the decline in adult friendships due to hyperindividualism and self-care trends.
- It embarks on the concept of the live-near-your-friends movement, which advocates the benefits of living near friends for increasing positivity and well-being.
- Initiatives and apps geared towards nurturing relationships are mentioned alongside the rise in mental disorders among Gen Z, with bird-watching being spotlighted as a potential mental health enhancer.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37676393)

- The discussion highlights the significance of residing near friends and family, weighing up the benefits and hurdles of moving closer to loved ones.
- The talk also emphasizes the precedence of personal ties over career advancements or material benefits and drills into the complications of nurturing long-distance relationships.
- The friendly confines of close-knit communities and the alienation presented by remote work are two other notable aspects discussed.

## [Open Source does not win by being cheaper](https://github.com/getlago/lago/wiki/Open-Source-does-not-win-by-being-cheaper)

- The article challenges the perception that open-source projects can only thrive by being cost-effective alternatives - they need to offer more than just being open-source.
- It stresses that profit generation, not just usage, should be considered a success metric for open-source companies.
- The role of transparency, extensibility, community input, and superior performance over closed-source rivals is highlighted as a means for open-source projects to gain a competitive edge.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37682684)

- The article and subsequent discussions on Hacker News focus on the concept of profitability in relation to open-source projects, delving into the challenges and tensions these projects face when backed by commercial entities.
- It further discusses the pros and cons of open-source software versus closed-source cloud solutions, and the reasons why companies opt for open-source products.
- Different business models involving open-source software are also touched upon, emphasizing the intricate balance between generating profit and maintaining open-source communities and products.

## [Why does trying to break into the NT 3.1 kernel reboot my 486DX4 machine?](https://retrocomputing.stackexchange.com/questions/19655/why-does-trying-to-break-into-the-nt-3-1-kernel-reboot-my-486dx4-machine)

- The author is experiencing issues with accessing the NT 3.1 kernel, possibly due to a compatibility issue with their processor.
- They identify a bug in the KiSaveProcessorControlState function as the potential source of the problem.
- The author proposes a solution involving the replacement of specific values within this function to rectify the issue.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37684986)

- The discussion mainly involves the vulnerabilities and exploits of initial versions of Windows OS, emphasizing their insufficient security provisions and the presence of exploitable weaknesses.
- A secondary focus lies on home networks' lack of routers and firewalls, as well as hacking techniques and remote administration tasks.
- Participants have diverging opinions on the utilization of books for troubleshooting - some argue their need decreases with increased expertise, while others maintain their value as resources.

## [Desalination system could produce freshwater that is cheaper than tap water](https://news.mit.edu/2023/desalination-system-could-produce-freshwater-cheaper-0927)

- Engineers from MIT and China have developed a solar-powered desalination system capable of converting seawater into potable water.
- The system capitalizes on natural sunlight to heat the seawater, which, upon evaporation, leaves behind salt while the water vapor is collected as pure drinking water.
- This method showcases higher water-production and salt-rejection rates, and researchers estimate that it can yield up to 6 liters of drinkable water per hour if scaled up. These features make the system potentially more affordable than tap water over time.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37681004)

- MIT researchers have designed a new desalination process that is cost-effective and minimizes salt waste accumulation, providing freshwater at lower costs than tap water.
- This research brings into focus the ongoing debate about the potential environmental impact of desalination on marine ecosystems, and suggestions for alternatively concentrating salt through evaporation or repurposing it.
- The discussion also includes varying methods of salt waste disposal from desalination, including potential use for lithium extraction, ocean dumping, or finding new methods, alongside the commercial relevance and role of desalination in tackling water scarcity.

## [Please don't print –-help to stderr in your CLI tools](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37682859)

- The text emphasizes the confusion triggered when a help description is printed to stderr (an error output in computer programs) instead of stdout (a standard output in systems), as is the convention with GNU utilities.
- The author suggests that adhering to the practice of using stdout for help descriptions can help prevent misunderstanding, especially for newcomers in the field.
- GNU utilities are programs offered by the GNU operating system, an extensive suite of free software, known for following consistent practices.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37682859)

- The discourse pertains to whether command-line interfaces should print help messages to stderr or stdout.
- A group supports the idea of the output to stderr while others recommend adhering to the standard practice of outputting to stdout.
- The conversation underlines the significance of correctly managing streams, redirecting output, and adherence to established conventions, highlighting instances where programs diverge from usual practices.

## [Meta Quest 3](https://www.meta.com/quest/quest-3/)

- The Meta Quest 3, a mixed reality headset with improved power, graphics, audio, comfort, and controllers, is now on the market.
- Users can customize the head strap, pre-order accessories, and enjoy integrated content like LEGO Bricktales and Stranger Things. Certain models include Asgard's Wrath 2 for a limited period.
- The device provides a range of immersive experiences including games, fitness programs, and social apps, with various accessory upgrades, regional availability, and financing options also outlined.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37678318)

- The discussions focus on the limitations, potentials, and perceived unsuccessful adoption of virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) technology.
- Participants talk about the need for a "killer app" to drive VR adoption, the diversity in VR experiences, and compare different VR devices, also touching on VR's compatibility with Linux.
- Mixed opinions are expressed on the practicality, value, and potential of virtual and augmented reality technology. There's anticipation over AR's potential and the hurdles in VR becoming mainstream.

## [That's a Lot of YAML](https://noyaml.com/)

- This post discusses the advantages and disadvantages of using YAML in development and devops processes.
- It provides related resources to further understand YAML's application and functionality.
- A humorous anecdote about the problem of abbreviating "Norway" in YAML is included in the text to exemplify some of the challenges in using the language.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37687060)

- The discussion is centered on the strengths, weaknesses, and criticism of YAML as a configuration language.
- A balanced view prevails as consideration extends to other languages like JSON or XML which also exhibit flaws, thereby emphasizing that the choice of language is dependent on project necessities and individual familiarity.
- Alongside, the text illuminates the need for improved tooling and alternative formats, while expressing concerns over the limitations and potential negative aspects of utilizing code for configuration.

## [Lisp Badge LE](http://www.technoblogy.com/show?3Z2Y)

- The article discusses a low-power computer named the Lisp Badge LE, which is programmed in Lisp.
- This computer utilizes a graphics library for plotting on the display and operates on uLisp, a version of Lisp designed for microcontrollers.
- Details about programming the board are provided, including creating a PCB, installing a bootloader, and uploading code. The article also offers resources for obtaining source code and PCB files.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37682273)

- The article reviews the LISP Badge LE project, a create-your-own device that's gained traction with electronics enthusiasts.
- It mentions that the project operates on a coin battery—with a lifespan of circa 40 hours—igniting discussion on both environmental impact concerns and the prospects of such a device for programming.
- Recognizing the project as intriguing, the majority of readers have expressed interest in purchasing a pre-assembled version and appreciate uLisp's creator, renowned for educational projects.

## [Desalination system could produce fresh water that is cheaper than tap water](https://www.eurekalert.org/news-releases/1002811)

- Engineers from MIT and China have collaboratively developed a solar desalination system that economically converts seawater into potable water, leveraging natural sunlight to heat and evaporate the saltwater.
- This system exhibits a high water-production rate, long lifespan without the need for part replacements, making it ideal for off-grid coastal communities; it produces sufficient drinking water for a small family.
- The unique design of the system takes inspiration from the ocean's convection circulation to prevent salt accumulation and system blockage, and it is estimated to be more cost-effective than standard tap water production in the United States.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37675831)

- Researchers at MIT have developed various solar-powered desalination systems. These use solar energy to evaporate and condense water, allowing the removal of salt and impurities to generate potable water.
- These systems demonstrate potential in addressing water scarcity issues affordably, although more research is required for scalability and commercial deployment.
- Comments examine different facets of solar desalination, encompassing water requirements, feasibility, pumping costs, and probable applications.

## [The Tao of Programming (1987)](https://www.mit.edu/~xela/tao.html)

- "The Tao of Programming" is a comprehensive assortment of teachings and stories related to the significance of comprehending the Tao in the context of programming.
- The narrative underscores the value of understanding the logic and inner mechanisms of programs, and reflects on the impact of managerial roles on programmer productivity.
- It critiques the inefficiencies prevalent in corporate structures through the encounters and lessons of the Master Programmer, concluding with a recommendation for exit.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37678181)

- The conversation spans various topics such as the intricacy of programming, the reputation and usability of the COBOL language, and cultural sensitivity in the tech community.
- The topic of discussion includes the relationship between Daoism and programming, exploring the use of ancient wisdom in modern problem-solving.
- The dialogue also incidentally focus on intellectual property rights and the historical trends in the hacker community, notably the revival of ancient traditions.

## [OpenBSD PF versus FreeBSD PF](https://mwl.io/archives/23127)

- The author reviews the relationship between OpenBSD PF and FreeBSD PF, pointing out that both projects are mutually beneficial despite their discrepancies.
- Significant kernel differences between OpenBSD and FreeBSD mean code cannot be directly exchanged between the two.
- The continual competition between these two projects yields universal benefits, making debates on superior versions irrelevant.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37678714)

- The discussion involves a comparison between OpenBSD PF and FreeBSD PF firewalls, focusing on their performance and features in optimizing network performance and mitigating DOS attacks.
- Users also discuss iptables and nftables in Linux as alternatives for similar functionality and touch on different versions of PF firewall used in various operating systems.
- Users request and suggest resources for learning, like OpenBSD and FreeBSD's documentation, the handbook, and "The Book of PF". They also express interest in porting DragonflyBSD's ipfw3 to FreeBSD.

## [DAWproject: Open exchange format for DAWs](https://github.com/bitwig/dawproject)

- The DAWproject is an open exchange format that enables user data transfer between different digital audio workstations (DAWs). It's designed to encapsulate all convertible project information, including audio, notes, automation, and plugin parameters into one file.
- Based on XML, the format is stable, simple to roll out, and reliant on pre-established open standards. It can be used with any programming language capable of parsing XML.
- Currently, Bitwig Studio 5.0.9 and PreSonus Studio One 6.5 support the DAWproject format. It preserves as much user-generated data as possible without intending to serve as a DAW's native file format or supply ideal performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37680449)

- Bitwig has created a new open exchange format named CLAP for digital audio workstations (DAWs), lauded for its software development and Linux compatibility.
- There are concerns over MIDI functionality on Linux and insufficient documentation from Ableton, and suggestions to support microtuning and alternative pitch representation.
- Bitwig's endeavor is perceived positively, but its success hinges on acquiring across-the-board industry support.

## [The Ashley Book of Knots (1944)](https://archive.org/details/TheAshleyBookOfKnots)

- The Wayback Machine provides an archived preview of "The Ashley Book Of Knots," written by Clifford W. Ashley in 1944.
- This book focuses on the significance of knots in maritime activities, their usage in different crafts, and features illustrations and explanations of various knots.
- Appreciated broadly as an exhaustive resource on knots, the book also delves into their historical origins and practical applications.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37676880)

- "The Ashley Book of Knots" is a comprehensive guide to knots, illustrating both their strengths and weaknesses and offering more secure knot alternatives.
- Hacker News users engage in a discussion about the practical uses of knot-tying, exchanging favorite knots and resources to learn and practice knots.
- The author introduces the concept of a flow chart for appropriate knot usage depending on different situations.

## [Carton – Run any ML model from any programming language](https://carton.run)

- Carton is an open-source tool designed to streamline the integration of machine learning (ML) models into applications, regardless of the programming language in use.
- The tool permits decoupling of ML frameworks and provides a smooth method for model execution, thereby keeping pace with field advancements.
- Implemented mainly in Rust, Carton operates models in separate processes while employing an Inter-process Communication (IPC) system for dialogue. The tool also provides bindings to other languages.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37682286)

- Carton is a new tool aimed at facilitating the integration of machine learning models into applications, regardless of the technology these models use. It provides a unified interface to run models in different programming languages.
- Features include running models in isolated processes, cross-platform support with future Windows compatibility, easy deployment, no model conversion requirement, and execution via the model's own framework, alongside support for custom operations and TensorRT.
- The discussion also hints at concerns over maintaining performance with support for multiple languages in the development of the programming language Carton. The author, an experienced tech professional, has opened applications for YC Winter 2024.

## [Unions work](https://werd.io/2023/unions-work)

- The Writers Guild of America (WGA) successfully secured enhancements in AI regulations, residuals, and data transparency for writers in recent negotiations, underlining the advantages of unions in the entertainment industry.
- This achievement could affect future discussions between the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers (AMPTP) and the Screen Actors Guild-American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (SAG-AFTRA).
- The tech sector in the US is witnessing a shift towards unionization, with more tech employees recognizing the importance of collective bargaining power, taking cue from WGA's successful negotiations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37675422)

- The discussions highlight various subjects such as the role and effectiveness of unions in different industries and countries, pros and cons of a shorter work week, and unionization's impact in the public sector and entertainment industry.
- Topics of creativity and originality in commercial writing and media, as well as racially-focused initiatives and their efficacy, were also addressed.
- Participants express diverse views on unions, AI-generated content, worker cooperatives, the influence of globalization, and discrimination in hiring practices.

## [Valve releases Counter-Strike 2](https://store.steampowered.com/app/730/CounterStrike_2/)

- Counter-Strike 2, a free-to-play updated version of Counter-Strike, has been built on the Source 2 engine, featuring enhanced rendering and improved networking.
- The game introduces new CS Ratings and leaderboards, and offers redesigned maps, among other key updates.
- Released on August 21, 2012, Counter-Strike 2 has garnered positive reviews from players for its advanced competitive experience.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37681505)

- Valve has launched Counter-Strike 2, an upgrade to Counter-Strike: Global Offensive, provoking mixed reactions primarily due to removed maps, game modes, and the steep difficulty curve.
- Users are discussing the game's substantial storage requirement of 85GB while comparing it with other games and expressing their opinions on the gameplay experience.
- A peripheral conversation regarding cheating in Counter-Strike: Global Offensive is happening, with suggestions for anti-cheat mechanisms, and concerns about security and privacy are noted with prospects for advancements in future updates.

## [There's a mechanical watch feature called a “hack”](https://hachyderm.io/@danderson/111136144708450117)

- The term "hack" as used in mechanical watches relates to a feature that halts the seconds hand when the time-setting function is in use.
- This feature became prominent during WW2, allowing soldiers to synchronize their watches, and likely stemmed from "hack watches," affordable versions synchronized with expensive ship chronometers for navigation.
- Not all watch movements have this "hack" feature, which proves beneficial in maintaining time accuracy for short periods without relying on costly chronometers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37682912)

- The discussions delve into various themes like the utility of the "hack" feature in mechanical watches and the precision and appeal of certain watch attributes.
- Topics also include suggestions for watch restoration channels, the gratification of watching restoration videos, and origins of specific terms such as "hack" and "hackneyed" in relation to watch synchronization and its potential ties to Hackney Horse breed and place name "Hackney" in London.
- There is also a comparison between the experience of using Mastodon, a decentralized social network, without a login and that of Twitter.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Raspberry Pi 5" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Raspberry%20Pi%205&subheading=Thursday%2C%20September%2028%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
