---
slug: '/2023/09/29'
---

# 2023-09-29

## [WiFi without internet on a Southwest flight](https://jamesbvaughan.com/southwest-wifi/)

- The author narrates their experience on a Southwest flight where they were unable to directly buy internet access but found a way to use the flight's Wi-Fi status page.
- By using a basic curl command, they were able to gather data from the status page, including information such as altitude, estimated time of arrival, and ground speed.
- The data was stable, and the author enjoyed employing their technical skills during the flight for analytics.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37691232)

- The discourse encompasses topics related to internet access and connectivity in flights and hotels, addressing issues like identifying WiFi system loopholes and enhanced authentication protocols.
- Other discussions broach upon bypassing internet restrictions and investigating alternative internet access methods.
- The conversations also delve into the use of altitude data in aviation, strategic lateral offset procedure, and security concerns of in-flight WiFi systems.

## [Richard Stallman reveals he has cancer in the GNU 40 Hacker Meeting talk](https://audio-video.gnu.org/video/gnu40/rms-gnu40.webm)


### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37699851)

- Richard Stallman, founder of the Free Software Foundation and GNU Project, announced that he has been diagnosed with cancer, sparking the tech community into various debates.
- Some discussions focus on Stallman's influence in the field, his behavior, the usefulness of non-copyleft software, and the challenges the Free Software Foundation faces in conveying their principles adequately.
- Other conversations dig into broader issues like technical obsolescence, software licensing, business models, and the ethical factors linked with proprietary software.

## [LibrePCB](https://librepcb.org/)

- LibrePCB is a complimentary, cross-platform tool that enables users to design electronic circuits efficiently, offering a smart library concept for optimal library management.
- This software produces human-readable files conducive to easy management through version control systems, offering practical features such as integrated library management and a PCB fabrication service.
- Being an open-source project, LibrePCB is maintained through sponsorship backing, extending its accessibility by offering multi-language support and a user-friendly interface.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37694414)

- The discussion is about LibrePCB, an open-source Printed Circuit Board (PCB) design tool. Concerns are raised about its part library, the auto-routing feature, and limited import/export formats.
- Participants debate the auto-routing tools' effectiveness and challenges, with some advocating for manual decision-making over automatic. Additionally, there are calls for improved part libraries.
- The potential use of machine learning and Artificial Intelligence (AI) in PCB design is discussed, though challenges and risks are also highlighted. Various other PCB design tools and manufacturing services are also mentioned.

## [Bandcamp has been sold to Songtradr. What does this mean for the musicians?](https://rocknerd.co.uk/2023/09/28/bandcamp-has-been-sold-to-songtradr/)

- Epic Games has sold the music platform Bandcamp to Songtradr amid financial difficulties and staff cuts.
- The sale has prompted concerns from artists, especially given the recently unionized platform, casting doubts about its prospects under new management.
- It remains unclear how Songtradr intends to utilize Bandcamp's licensing capabilities, causing speculation among users and investors.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37695035)

- Bandcamp, a DRM-free music platform, has been bought by Songtradr, creating concerns among users about potential changes to the platform. Users are being encouraged to archive their collections as a precautionary measure.
- The acquisition has prompted speculation about Bandcamp's ongoing support for independent artists due to Epic's layoffs at the company prior to the acquisition.
- Users have voiced criticism, disappointment, and frustration over the acquisition and existing limitations of Bandcamp's functionality, indicative of broader concerns about the pursuit of profitability and infinite growth in businesses.

## [Dictionary of Algorithms and Data Structures](https://xlinux.nist.gov/dads/)

- The Dictionary of Algorithms and Data Structures is a web-based resource providing definitions and knowledge on algorithms, data structures, and other related matters.
- It features common algorithms and issues, and allows users to reach out to the editor with suggestions or corrections, promoting proactive community participation.
- The site incorporates a range of topics such as sorting algorithms, data structures like linked lists and trees, and computational complexity, serving as a comprehensive guide for further study.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37695245)

- The Dictionary of Algorithms and Data Structures is a vital tool for programmers and computer science students, but users have noted some missing algorithms and data structures.
- Users have shared suggestions for additional entries and resources, indicating a proactive community around the tool.
- Users appreciate the existing resource but express a desire for more contextual information and practical applications of the algorithms and data structures.

## [Generative Fill with AI and 3D](https://github.com/fill3d/fill)

- Fill 3D is an AI project that employs generative fill in a 3D approach to add objects to pictures realistically by addressing problems with lighting, perspective, and structural consistency found in other inpainting techniques.
- The project leverages path tracing to produce ultra-realistic outcomes and holds promise for applications like virtual staging in real estate media.
- This AI project is constructed on Function, a platform that lets Python operations be executed on robust GPUs without necessitating extra setup.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37695530)

- Fill 3D is an AI-powered tool that uses generative fill in 3D to blend realistically with background images, with potential applications in virtual staging for real estate.
- The tool generates a 3D representation by estimating a 3D 'room' and employs diffusion techniques mimicking human compositing, also offering API access.
- The author presents an argument that despite the advancement, most people may not desire customizable characters in storytelling, and this technology won't fundamentally alter storytelling in the near future.

## [Enterprises spend 10x more to build no-code solutions than coded ones](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37689282)

- The speaker emphasizes the advantage of coding less for small projects, highlighting the potential cost savings for non-technical individuals who otherwise depend on consultants.
- Reference is made to the costly connector license required for basic functionality in Microsoft PowerApps, a platform for developing business applications.
- The speaker identifies an increasing trend over the last three years towards code-less solutions in various enterprises, based on their consulting experience.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37689282)

- The discussion emphasizes the application and consequences of no-code and low-code solutions within organizations.
- Supporters argue their role in facilitating easy and efficient development; detractors express fears regarding their scalability, maintenance, and the continuous necessity for seasoned developers.
- Debate also encompasses the cost-effectiveness of no-code solutions, reflecting the complexities and trade-offs involved when implementing these tools in enterprise environments.

## [Amtrak Explorer](https://amtrakexplorer.com/)

- The Amtrak Explorer website, developed by Rachel Binx, enables users to discover Amtrak (a passenger railroad service in America) routes and access information about yearly and weekly passenger trips.
- This website utilizes datasets like the correlation between station and route, route details in GeoJSON (a format for encoding geographic data structures), and the longitude/latitude details of stations.
- The source code repository for this website is accessible via a link provided on the site.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37694333)

- The article delves into different facets of train travel in the United States, comparing it to train services elsewhere, and discussing cost-effectiveness and convenience.
- While it expresses a sense of appreciation for train travel, it also emphasizes the need for enhancements in infrastructure, reliability, and accessibility.
- It brings into focus the challenges and potential benefits of investing in passenger rail in a vast and diversely geographic country like the U.S.

## [Epic Games is laying off 16% of its staff](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-09-28/epic-games-is-cutting-about-900-jobs-or-16-of-staff)

- Epic Games, recognized for developing the popular video game Fortnite, is implementing layoffs for 870 employees as a cost reduction measure.
- The company's CEO acknowledged that the company's expenditures have exceeded its earnings, necessitating the layoffs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37690632)

- Epic Games, known for the popular game Fortnite, is laying off significant staff amid financial difficulties.
- The company is divesting its online audio distribution platform, Bandcamp, and battling issues with the Epic Games Store as well as a decline in Fortnite's platform growth.
- The layoffs are reportedly due to overestimated growth projections, excessive spending, and emerging technologies like AI language models influencing employment in the gaming industry.

## [FreeRDP: A remote desktop protocol implementation](https://www.freerdp.com/)

- FreeRDP, a free version of the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP), provides users with the flexibility to utilize their software anywhere, in any way they choose.
- The most recent update, 3.0.0-beta4, has just been released featuring various fixes and enhancements.
- To offer support and regular updates, the FreeRDP project operates a blog, a GitHub repository, a mailing list, and a Twitter account.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37688887)

- The article explores various remote desktop protocol implementations such as FreeRDP and Sunshine server on Linux for low latency, high-performance remote desktop streaming.
- Different alternative solutions including Chrome Remote Desktop, SSH, NoMachine, Remmina, and WSLg are discussed, shedding light on their benefits and limitations in terms of GUI support, potential scams, and more.
- The discussion emphasizes a need for improved performance, security, and a universal remote desktop protocol, and expresses user frustration about the lack of smooth options on Linux compared to Windows.

## [Mozilla.social mastodon waitlist](https://mozilla.social)

- The conversation on the Mozilla Social platform revolves around the number of active users, with a few expressing surprise over fewer users compared to other platforms such as the fedibird server.
- Some users express interest in the diverse range of profiles on the site. For instance, one user mentions following many accounts categorized as 'Nostr'.
- The post emphasizes Mozilla Social as an experimental beta product, encourages user feedback, and indicates potential system errors when there are too many requests.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37697795)

- The summary covers Mozilla's emphasis on privacy, data, and user identity with possible projects like a secure private email server and browser-level identity integration.
- It explores the potential of Mastodon, a social network, as an alternative to Twitter and highlights Mozilla's Firefox Relay project.
- The author critiques Twitter's reply thread changes and suggests a browser extension to mask replies from verified users.

## [WebGPU Technical Report](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/main/docs/security/research/graphics/webgpu_technical_report.md)

- The document sheds light on vulnerabilities and risks associated with the implementation of WebGPU in Chrome, pinpointing issues in graphics code, incorrect state tracking, and use-after-free bugs in the Dawn library.
- Additional problems are also identified in the GPU command buffer, shared memory, and the SwiftShader JIT (Just-in-Time) compiler, which can lead to unexpected state changes, reentrancy, and misuse of raw pointers in WebGPU.
- The authors recommend investing in fuzzing (method of testing for bugs) and manual auditing as potential strategies to mitigate these risks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37687846)

- The core discussion pertains to the implementation of the WebGPU Technical Report in various browsers, its readiness, and potential as an alternative to OpenGL.
- Concerns about security vulnerabilities in SwiftShader, lack of bug fixes, and the proposal of using Rust for new Chrome codes are addressed. Additionally, there is an existing WebGPU implementation in Rust.
- The post also investigates specific implementations like Veloren, wgpu, and Dusk for certain programming tasks. This discussion explores various areas like programming languages, web development middleware, comparisons between wgpu and WebGPU, code translation issues and the limitations of Rust's type system.

## [Universities have disinvested from their presses just as much as their libraries](https://www.publicbooks.org/publishers-and-scholars-unite/)

- The essay discusses widespread issues university press publishers and scholars face, including austerity measures, corporatization and the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. The importance of collective action and solidarity in dealing with these matters is emphasized.
- It explores the view of university press publishing as a career route for humanities PhDs, the variations in salary and career advancement opportunities and discusses the historical underinvestment in university presses and its impact on scholarly book publications.
- The essay states that university presses are companies influenced by financial factors and scholarly ideals. It discusses their commercialization and advocates for transparency and collaboration to shape the future of scholarly publishing. It also stresses the need to address labor exploitation within the publishing industry.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37692335)

- This discussion emphasizes the significance of university presses and the challenges they face, including increased subscription costs for academic libraries due to declining investments.
- It also tackles the dominance by major entities in academic publishing and the necessity for initiatives to promote publishing in open access journals.
- Other points of contention include the allocation of resources within universities, affecting library budgets and the purchasing power for electronic resources; furthermore, the effects of student loan debt, and the purpose of higher education, are discussed.

## [Conversation with Zuckerberg, this time we talked as photorealistic avatars](https://twitter.com/lexfridman/status/1707453830344868204)

- The author interacted with Mark Zuckerberg in the Metaverse, using photorealistic avatars for an immersive experience.
- This experience was described as very realistic, creating the illusion of an in-person interaction despite the physical distance.
- The Metaverse appears to offer a new form of interaction that could potentially transcend geographical constraints.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37694026)

- Meta CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, presented the advancement of lifelike avatars for use within the metaverse during a conversation with Lex Fridman, indicating the technology is nearing readiness.
- The discussion revolved around potential challenges with the precise tracking of facial expressions and body languages by avatars. However, many speculate these difficulties may be surpassed as technology progresses.
- The conversation also broached the future of metaverse, remote work, and implications of employing virtual avatars in social interactions, notably touching on privacy concerns, blending of virtual and physical worlds, and possible manipulation of AI models.

## [Ads team begging for worse search results so that ads team can hit their goals](https://twitter.com/pdrmnvd/status/1707395736458207430)

- The individual alleges that the ads team is deliberately seeking subpar search outcomes to fulfill their objectives.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37697152)

- A leaked email chain indicates the ads team at a prominent internet company is proposing alterations to search results in order to boost ad clicks.
- This request sparked debates and raised ethical concerns about the potential manipulation of data.
- There are disagreements among people, some believing higher management might not take the issue seriously, and others questioning the appropriateness of discussing such topics via email.

## [Lessons learned from implementing user-facing analytics / dashboards?](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37687798)

- The author is seeking input, experiences, hurdles, or discussions on a particular topic for an upcoming article.
- Contributors will be acknowledged for their contributions in the said article.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37687798)

- The article stresses on vital aspects of constructing and utilizing user-facing analytics and dashboards, emphasizing on clear rationale, user understanding, and balanced representation of data.
- An array of challenges faced are highlighted, including determining user requirements, managing loading speed, and circumventing potential misrepresentations of data through certain visualizations.
- The discourse also suggests that effective dashboard management and design considerations involve clear planning, thorough attention to accessibility, appropriate payload size, and ensuring data exportability.

## [Why are websites requesting access to motion sensors on my desktop? (2019)](https://grantwinney.com/websites-requesting-access-to-motion-sensors/)

- Websites are now asking for access to motion sensors on desktop devices, causing concerns over possible ulterior motives.
- The requests are supposedly connected to an obfuscated file from Akamai, implying potential use in monitoring user activity.
- The given JavaScript code snippet indicates that these sensors might be used for showing a sensor icon and identifying bots, but the script's precise purpose and efficacy, particularly for desktops without accelerometers, are still uncertain.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37688314)

- The conversation revolves around several themes: web browsers, operating systems, and user privacy, including specific issues like website requests for motion sensor access and the influence of dominant browsers.
- The potential for tracking users through browser capabilities, along with the pros and cons of web applications, was discussed. The discourse also covered the role of cookies and telemetry in user authenticity and privacy concerns.
- Participants shared varied viewpoints on these topics and contemplated potential remedies and safeguards to address these challenges.

## [Chomsky explains why nobody is a moral relativist](https://www.openculture.com/2023/09/noam-chomsky-explains-why-nobody-is-really-a-moral-relativist-even-michel-foucault.html)

- Noam Chomsky asserts that moral relativism is invalid as even its proponents implicitly uphold universal moral norms.
- Chomsky likens the process of developing moral values to language acquisition, implying both require certain constraints for structured comprehension.
- These viewpoints were presented during his 1971 debate with Michel Foucault, as mentioned on Open Culture, a free educational resource site by Dan Colman.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37687699)

- The text discusses moral relativism, axioms, universal moral values, cultural context, and ethnocentrism, demonstrating the varied and complex nature of moral beliefs and theories.
- It presents differing viewpoints on the legitimacy and origins of moral principles, with some advocating for universal morality and others emphasizing the impact of cultural and situational factors.
- The passage also incorporates Noam Chomsky's perspectives on morality and his standing on geopolitical matters.

## [Iconic tree at Hadrian's Wall's 'Sycamore Gap' has been 'felled'](https://www.hexham-courant.co.uk/news/23819352.sycamore-gap-northumberland-damaged-storm-agnes/)

- The Sycamore Gap tree, a popular tourist attraction in Northumberland, UK and the 2016 England Tree of the Year award winner, has been deliberately cut down.
- Authorities have launched an investigation to determine if any criminal offenses have been committed in relation to this incident.
- Public is advised not to visit the site while the investigation is under process.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37687887)

- The renowned Sycamore Gap tree at Hadrian's Wall in the UK has been deliberately felled, leading to a public outcry.
- A 16-year-old has been arrested in relation to the act which has sparked conversations about journalism standards, social media effects on landmarks, and the legal implications of tree cutting.
- The incident has underscored the significance of trees, debating over punitive measures, and awareness regarding their value, with some proposing stricter regulations to avert similar occurrences in the future.

## [Bing Chat responses infiltrated by ads pushing malware](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/bing-chat-responses-infiltrated-by-ads-pushing-malware/)

- Microsoft's AI-assisted Bing Chat is reportedly falling victim to a malvertising campaign, with malicious ads promoting fake download links for the popular 'Advanced IP Scanner' utility.
- The false ad links pose a significant threat to users who, through their interaction with AI assistants, may perceive these sites as trustworthy. Interacting with these ads could lead to websites carrying heavily obfuscated malicious scripts.
- The intent of the malware campaign remains unknown but parallels with similar campaigns suggest the potential for information-stealing malware or remote access trojans. This underlines the importance of verifying URLs and chatbot results before proceeding with downloads.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37694524)

- The discussion criticizes Bing Chat's AI search engine for displaying ads promoting malware rather than yielding accurate and relevant search results.
- The usefulness and accuracy of AI-powered search engines are questioned, with a division of opinions between its convenience and its limitations.
- Microsoft's Bing is specifically targeted for issues regarding its search results and its integration with AI technologies, along with its user control strategies and potential malware threats.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="WiFi without internet on a Southwest flight" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=WiFi%20without%20internet%20on%20a%20Southwest%20flight&subheading=Friday%2C%20September%2029%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
