---
slug: '/2023/09/30'
---

# 2023-09-30

## [Draggable objects](https://www.redblobgames.com/making-of/draggable/)

- The blog post provides a guide on how to implement draggable functionality for interactive diagrams using mouse and touch events, complete with code examples and explanations.
- It addresses common issues like preventing scrolling, context menus, and text selection during dragging, and it sheds light onto compatibility testing and limitations related to input methods.
- A separate discussion on a Vue component for dragging SVG elements is provided, along with the code examples and usage instructions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37703291)

- The discussion thread mainly addresses the hurdles and potential solutions in implementing draggable objects in web design, including calculating layouts and handling outliers.
- The debate spotlights the limitations of the HTML drag and drop API, suggesting the need for alternative means.
- Thread participants highly commend Amit Patel's website, RedBlobGames, for its beneficial content on game development, algorithms, and AI, suggesting it as a topic for future discussions on Hacker News.

## [Everything authenticated by Microsoft is tainted](https://graz.social/@publicvoit/111147782761723981)

- The summary highlights concerns regarding Microsoft's security post the recent Azure cloud hack, including the potential vulnerability of services like GitHub.
- It stresses the importance of a disaster plan and mitigation measures, particularly for platforms like NixOS that rely heavily on GitHub.
- Lastly, it brings up the need for user-friendly alternatives to GitHub, and the larger issue of data control within the cloud, indicating an anticipation of the expansion of potential attackers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37702095)

- The forum participants discuss diverse issues, including the latest Microsoft security breach, the level of trust in Microsoft, and the company's security practices.
- There are concerns about the risks in cloud computing, privacy, and online security, with participants sharing various perspectives on possible implications and challenges.
- Topics like the security of operating systems and the relationship between consumers and vendors are also analyzed, indicating a broader discussion on tech market dynamics.

## [RealFill: Image completion using diffusion models](https://realfill.github.io/)

- RealFill, a generative model, enhances image completion by filling in missing regions of an image with fitting content, using a model fine-tuned on reference images.
- RealFill surpasses other methods in dealing with challenging scenarios like various viewpoints, lighting conditions, camera settings, and image styles, thereby enhancing image completion.
- However, RealFill has drawbacks including slower operational speed and the inability to handle extreme viewpoint changes.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37708292)

- The conversation primarily revolves around the use of AI for image manipulation and enhancement, with applications in industries like photography, film, and TV.
- Notably, Google's advancements in computational photography and image editing are mentioned, along with concerns about authenticity and ethical issues.
- People are discussing AI upscaling's potential to improve older TV shows' quality and the debate on the correct terminology for generated images.

## [Facebook/Meta blocks accounts for posting link to EFF privacy tips](https://techhub.social/@kirbstr/111148950526108155)

- User @kirbstr highlighted on Facebook, the presence of limitations when attempting to share an opt-out link, initially mentioned in a thread by @pluralistic.
- Many Facebook users expressed concern regarding Facebook's control over information dissemination and questioned the legality of these restrictions.
- User @RealGene confirmed that the link in question helps disable Google's "Privacy Sandbox," an ad tracking feature.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37706302)

- Facebook/Meta has barred accounts for disseminating a link to the Electronic Frontier Foundation's privacy tips, inciting concerns about incorrect blocking and the need for online moderation checks.
- The event sparked conversation regarding Facebook's privacy controversies, mediation methods, and social media's part in fueling outrage culture.
- Users on Hacker News acknowledged the flaws in content moderation algorithms and raised concerns about Facebook's privacy tactics.

## [Privacy washing: Google claims to support privacy while lobbying against it](https://proton.me/blog/google-lobbying)

- Google is accused of "privacy washing", i.e., promoting privacy but lobbying against legislation aimed at protecting users from online surveillance.
- Google's lobbying efforts, aimed at halting official regulation of data exploitation, have spanned globally and cost millions. It argues for companies, not individuals, to have control over data decisions.
- The company is reported to have tried weakening privacy laws in regions like California and Europe and currently aims to incorporate a clause in a trade agreement limiting member nations from enacting privacy laws.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37705368)

- The primary focus is on Google's privacy practices, targeted advertising, and active lobbying against privacy legislation, recounting criticism as well as support.
- The discourse includes debates on the ethical aspects of targeted ads and marketing, the role of capitalism in these practices, and the manipulative techniques often associated with advertising.
- Concerns are raised about Google's potential monopoly, the nonexistence of complete privacy in the digital domain, and the apparent lack of enthusiasm from lawmakers to champion privacy matters.

## [RISC-V assembly tabletop board game (hack your opponent)](https://punkx.org/overflow/)

- The author developed the game to tutor their daughter about buffer overflows and to promote program experimentation.
- The game, inspired by the article 'Smashing the Stack for Fun and Profit', requires discovering various exploits, learning from errors, and enjoying the collaborative process.
- The author mentioned creating an ESP32 helper for collaborative play while considering the prospect of using a web version.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37704760)

- A programmer has designed a tabletop board game to educate his daughter about buffer overflows and the excitement of manipulating computer programs.
- The game, based on RISC-V assembly language, enables players to exploit vulnerabilities and 'hack' their opponents, aiming to reignite the hands-on exploration of earlier computing systems.
- The board game has garnered positive feedback and is deemed appropriate for individuals aged 10 and up, with hopes of inspiring a new generation of hackers.

## [I Tested an HDMI Adapter That Demands Your Location and Spams You with Ads](https://www.404media.co/i-tested-an-hdmi-adapter-that-demands-your-location-browsing-data-photos-and-spams-you-with-ads/)

- Independent tech site 404 Media has disclosed an investigation into an HDMI adapter masquerading as an Apple product, which covertly collects user data and delivers ads.
- The adapter engages users to download an app via a QR code, granting it access to personal data, which is then shared with advertisers and sent to China.
- The revelations emphasize the ongoing privacy concerns surrounding consumer electronics and bring focus to Amazon's role in selling such products amid an FTC lawsuit against the company for hosting spam ads.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37707119)


## [How a four-day workweek works, from the companies pulling it off](https://www.wsj.com/lifestyle/careers/how-a-4-day-workweek-actually-works-from-the-companies-pulling-it-off-1a5c0e2a)

- More businesses are testing four-day workweeks, with employees reporting boosts in productivity and an enhanced work-life balance.
- Companies, like ThredUp, have made the shorter week effective by diminishing meetings and focusing on vital work. However, some firms haven't seen increased efficiency, specifically larger ones with worldwide operations, which may face difficulties finding a uniform schedule.
- Despite these challenges, the attraction of shorter workweeks persists, with some state legislators introducing bills to persuade more businesses to adopt this four-day program.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37706596)

- The collection scrutinizes the advantages and potential disadvantages of a four-day workweek, with arguments asserting it could enhance productivity, work-life balance, and mental wellness.
- However, some express reservations regarding its practicality and the likely impact on productivity.
- The discourse encompasses issues like work interruptions, job replaceability, and the significance of individual skills, concluding with diverse opinions about the implementation of a shorter workweek and the necessity for alterations in work culture and efficiency prior to such adoption.

## [Visual Node Graph with ImGui](https://gboisse.github.io/posts/node-graph/)

- The author details their creation of a node graph system for "RogueEngine," a graphics engine they built intending to create an easy-to-use interface for content interaction, editing, and artist-designer collaboration.
- The system only houses two categories of nodes, a root node, a data node, and a component node, drawing inspiration from software like Blender, Notch, and Godot.
- Implementation was achieved through Dear ImGui for UI, separating data models from GUI code, and providing keyframing properties and code nodes for enhanced pliability.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37702059)

- The article delves into the topic of visual programming, specifically discussing a visual node graph system and various related tools and libraries.
- There's a lively debate about the pros and cons of visual programming, pointing out challenges like algorithm representation difficulty and issues with readability and structure.
- The post acknowledges the effectiveness of the imgui library in the gaming industry and brings attention to the importance of standardized tools in textual programming.

## [50 years later, is two-phase locking the best we can do?](http://concurrencyfreaks.blogspot.com/2023/09/50-years-later-is-two-phase-locking.html)

- The piece analyzes the shortcomings of the Two-Phase Locking (2PL) algorithm for database concurrency control, including poor scalability and live-lock progress.
- It proposes an advanced version, Two-Phase Locking Starvation-Free (2PLSF), designed to address these limitations using scalable read-indicators.
- The article discusses the evolution and challenges of 2PL, positioning 2PLSF as an improved alternative for concurrency control in databases.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37706893)

- The article evaluates the constraints of the two-phase locking (2PL) approach in distributed systems and proposes alternate methods - namely Raft and serializable snapshot isolation - to achieve consistency in distributed microservice architecture.
- It delves into the utilization of different mechanisms and protocols such as ULIDs for identification, TL2 and 2PL for concurrency control, and Paxos and Raft for consensus in distributed transactions.
- The article concludes by highlighting the communication difficulties faced in distributed systems due to unreliable networks and the use of Calvin-like protocols in multi-replica systems.

## [Meta in Myanmar](https://erinkissane.com/meta-in-myanmar-part-i-the-setup)

- This summary highlights Meta's (previously known as Facebook) contribution to the spread of hate speech and violence against the Rohingya people in Myanmar, where the platform has become dominant.
- Despite repeated alarms from activists and experts, the article underscores Facebook's failure to tackle this issue.
- The post suggests a significant relationship connecting the role of major social media platforms and real-world violence and raises questions on their responsibility and accountability.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37709284)

- The conversation is centered on Facebook's role in propagating hate speech and encouraging violence in Myanmar, specifically against the Rohingya minority.
- Facebook's algorithms and insufficient content moderation are criticized for enabling the dissemination of damaging content, resulting in deaths and displacements.
- The dialogue extends to the moral responsibilities of Facebook, the hurdles in content moderation, and the larger issue of regulating speech on social media platforms.

## [Norway wants Facebook behavioral advertising banned across Europe](https://www.theregister.com/2023/09/29/norway_facebook_behavioral_ads/)

- Norway is advocating for a permanent Europe-wide ban on Meta (formerly Facebook) from using user data for behavioral advertising on Facebook and Instagram.
- The ban, initiated due to Meta's non-compliance with data protection regulations and collection of protected data, has met resistance, as Meta argues it already has users' consent for targeted advertising.
- While the UK is not included in this issue due to its own data protection bill, Norway's Data Protection Authority wants the GDPR to be uniformly interpreted throughout the EU/EEA.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37704859)

- Norway is pushing for a prohibition on Facebook's behavioural advertising within Europe, sparking a discussion on the negative impacts of ads and their necessity.
- The debate touches on the ethical considerations of advertising, governmental regulation, and advertising's role within capitalism, including concerns about psychological techniques in ads and their effect on body image.
- Reddit users are discussing resource allocation within the tech and marketing sectors, expressing annoyance at excessive phone features and manipulative marketing, alongside the impact of online advertising on privacy and small businesses.

## [MMO Architecture: Source of truth, Dataflows, I/O bottlenecks and how to solve](https://prdeving.wordpress.com/2023/09/29/mmo-architecture-source-of-truth-dataflows-i-o-bottlenecks-and-how-to-solve-them/)

- The article thoroughly dissects the design & architecture intricacies associated with MMO (Massively Multiplayer Online) games, highlighting the difficulty of managing data Input/Output (I/O) and overcoming I/O bottlenecks.
- The author underscores the significance of an in-memory world state, which is the source of truth, and not the database in MMO games, introducing the data broker pattern which helps maintain the world state in memory and allows game services to interact with it through RPC (Remote Procedure Call).
- The article emphasizes the need for strategic planning and analysis to streamline data flows, discussing critical considerations like data perseverance, scalability, and the application of CAS (Compare-and-swap) instructions to prevent race conditions for enhancing system performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37702632)

- This post discusses the complexities of designing the architecture for massively multiplayer online (MMO) games, such as handling synchronization, caching, optimization, and managing state.
- It sheds light on the development of a fan-made MMO, FOnline, the potential of private servers like Trinitycore for games like World of Warcraft, and the technicalities of running private servers.
- The post also provides resources and advice for MMO architecture design and takes on challenges such as player acquisition, decision-making, and optimization.

## [Encrypted Client Hello](https://blog.cloudflare.com/announcing-encrypted-client-hello/)

- Cloudflare has proposed a new standard, Encrypted Client Hello (ECH), to bolster user privacy by preventing networks from detecting the websites a user visits.
- ECH conceals the Server Name Indication (SNI), a part of the TLS handshake process, ensuring that user activity tracking is limited to the user, Cloudflare, and the site owner.
- Cloudflare has rolled out ECH across all of its plans and advocates for its broader adoption to enhance privacy on the internet.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37703885)

- The discussion revolves around the integration and effects of Encrypted Client Hello (ECH) in Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocols, highlighting concerns about government intervention and quantum computer threats to encryption.
- Participants debate the repercussions of obstructing domain access, the inability of ECH to hinder traffic analysis, and topics like censorship, network security, Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), and DNS over HTTPS (DoH).
- Key emphasis lies on internet privacy and control, with varying viewpoints on the optimal roadmap to attain these objectives.

## [Trains on another level](https://factorio.com/blog/post/fff-378)

- Factorio's latest update introduces elevated rails, aimed at improving train throughput in larger factories and enhancing gameplay.
- The update features rail ramps, elevated rails, rail supports, and fences. These graphics took approximately nine months to develop.
- Elevated rails, only accessible with the expansion executable, can be researched using Production science packs. The feature will also be launched as a standalone official mod. Feedback on the new feature is welcomed by the developers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37710683)

- The new update for the game Factorio has sparked differing opinions among players, with some excited about the enhancements and others expressing apprehension.
- Discussions revolve around the game's addictive nature, potential competition from similar games, and positive responses to an upcoming train-focused game.
- Amidst criticism of certain elements in Factorio, commenters are sharing their excitement about the game's expansion, offering suggestions for similar gaming experiences, and discussing strategies for in-game exploration and resource finding.

## [Insomnium – Local, privacy-focused fork of Insomnia API client](https://github.com/ArchGPT/insomnium)

- Insomnium, a fork of API client Insomnia, is a privacy-focused, open-source application supports technologies such as GraphQL, REST, WebSockets, Server-sent events, and gRPC.
- Insomnium was created in opposition to a product update that required mandatory account login. It removes user login, tracking, and analytics with a mission to optimize the speed of the app.
- The software is compatible with Mac, Windows, Linux, and allows development on any of these platforms using Node.js and Git. A plugin named Code Llama is under development for enhanced customization and extensibility. The MIT license governs the project.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37708582)

- Insomnium is a privacy-focused fork of the Insomnia API client, created due to concerns over user-data handling by the original client, leading to community backlash.
- Alternatives to Insomnia, like Restfox, Bruno, ezy, Step CI, and Hurl, were brought up. Some users also recommended Thunder, REST Client in JetBrains IDEs, and restclient.el for Emacs.
- Criticisms include the data and account hunger in HTTP clients, as well as the lack of self-hosted team collaboration tools. A feature request for HTTP clients to generate curl commands and code snippets was also proposed.

## [$5k Google Jamboard dies in 2024–cloud-based apps will stop working, too](https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2023/09/5000-google-jamboard-dies-in-2024-cloud-based-apps-will-stop-working-too/)

- Google has revealed plans to discontinue Google Jamboard, its digital whiteboard product, by late 2024, including support for related cloud-based apps.
- Existing users will have the opportunity to migrate their data to competitor whiteboard apps, and those requiring a similar product will need to purchase a new touchscreen.
- This decision aligns with Google's intention to leave the whiteboard market and enhance its partner ecosystem for whiteboarding in Google Workspace, due to insufficient demand to sustain Jamboard despite its superior price tag and additional costs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37704537)

- Google's $5k interactive whiteboard, Google Jamboard, and its associated cloud-based apps are projected to become obsolete by 2024.
- This announcement has sparked discussions on various platforms, underscoring its industry-wide significance.
- Links are provided within those discussions for further reading, inviting users to engage and gain a fuller understanding of the situation.

## [Making a music library without a SPA](https://begin.com/blog/posts/2023-09-28-introducing-enhance-music)

- The Enhance team developed Enhance Music, an audio player app built using HTML, CSS, and minimal JavaScript, to demonstrate the potential for interactive interfaces without reliance on JavaScript libraries or frameworks.
- The team detailed the app's structure, progressive enhancement, and functionality, such as property updates and waveform visualization, around HTMLMediaElement and Web Components, while also addressing factors like web standards, performance, and accessibility.
- They also showed how they handled accessibility attributes and limitations like Safari's autoplay issue; they encouraged readers to examine the source code and acknowledged copyright and content origin at the conclusion.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37705328)

- The thread involves a discussion on building music libraries without using single-page applications (SPAs), with participants voicing concerns about slower load times, limited user experience features, navigational difficulties, and dependence on JavaScript.
- There's a debate on the use of JavaScript in web development, with some seeking more functionality in HTML, while others express concerns over the challenges in maintaining codebases having large dependency trees.
- A segment of users discusses alternative options like using framesets instead of SPAs, and the potential use of iframes for dynamic component swapping in the music players. Opinions on non-SPA music libraries benefits and drawbacks vary among the participants.

## [Soviet computer has been forgotten for 30 years [video]](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lVCS99Zep9w)

- The hosts of a video series restore and demonstrate a Soviet-era computer found within the Chernobyl exclusion zone, discussing its unique features and functionality.
- They illustrate challenges faced during the restoration process, acknowledging assistance from the retro computing community, and showcase old software applications and games on the Ukrainian computer.
- In addition to technical exploration, they also share personal experiences, perhaps promising a bonus video about a historical artifact exerting a broader historical context. They close by engaging their audience with a standard YouTube call to action—asking for likes and subscriptions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37709876)

- The article brings up reminiscences of the vintage Soviet computer ES-1841, emphasizing its use for gaming and coding, and also elaborates on other retro games.
- It delves into the significant influence of cybernetics on Soviet computing, touching upon different facets of Soviet computing history.
- The discussion expands to vintage computing technology, connectors in older computers and the game Digger, suggesting the potential of operating an iPhone on such systems in the future.

## [Three Arrows Capital co-founder Zhu arrested in Singapore airport](https://techcrunch.com/2023/09/29/three-arrows-capital-co-founder-zhu-arrested-in-singapore-airport-sentenced-four-months-in-prison/)

- Su Zhu, co-founder of Three Arrows Capital (3AC), has been arrested and sentenced to four months imprisonment in Singapore due to non-compliance with court orders in relation to the liquidation investigation of the defunct crypto hedge fund.
- This development follows 3AC's bankruptcy filing in 2022.
- The location of the other co-founder, Kyle Davies, is presently unknown.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37705563)

- The article discusses diverse aspects of cryptocurrency, such as the implications of the arrest of a capital firm co-founder and the value potential of stablecoins.
- It underlines the vulnerabilities of Bitcoin, various use cases for cryptocurrencies, and references a historical prisoner of war camp scenario.
- The piece notes the need for increased controls in the crypto industry and highlights that opinions on the future prospects and feasibility of cryptocurrencies are varied.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Draggable objects" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Draggable%20objects&subheading=Saturday%2C%20September%2030%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
