---
slug: '/2023/08/12'
---

# 2023-08-12

## [Squeeze the hell out of the system you have](https://blog.danslimmon.com/2023/08/11/squeeze-the-hell-out-of-the-system-you-have/#like-2777)

- The author shares their experience of improving database performance by optimizing queries and tuning settings instead of implementing complex solutions like sharding or microservices.
- They highlight the importance of maximizing the efficiency of existing systems before introducing additional complexity.
- The result of their efforts was a noticeable decrease in CPU usage and more room for future expansion. The author suggests delaying complexity for as long as possible, acknowledging that it may eventually be necessary.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37091983)

- Optimizing database queries and indexing is essential for improving system performance.
- The article explores the use of joins in database design, trade-offs between tall and wide systems, and challenges in building wide applications.
- It also discusses Grab as a company, benefits and concerns of denormalization in database design, and challenges in scaling and splitting monolithic systems.

## [Judge sends Sam Bankman-Fried to jail over witness tampering](https://www.cnbc.com/2023/08/11/judge-to-revoke-bail-for-ftx-founder-sam-bankman-fried-over-witness-tampering.html)

- FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried has been sent to jail by a U.S. judge for allegedly tampering with witnesses.
- Bankman-Fried's request for delayed detention pending an appeal was denied, and he is expected to remain in custody until his criminal trial in October.
- The government claims that Bankman-Fried has been evading his bail conditions and tampering with witnesses by sending emails to the media, making phone calls to members of the press, and leaking private diary entries to the New York Times.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37092861)

- The CEO of FTX cryptocurrency exchange, Sam Bankman-Fried, has been jailed for witness tampering, with claims that he shared materials with the press to intimidate a witness.
- The case has sparked discussions on media bias, the role of journalists, SBF's wealth and influence, and his mental state, along with comparisons to figures like Elon Musk.
- Other topics include the consequences of violating bail terms, the rationality of Bankman-Fried's behavior, potential corruption in Washington, sentencing guidelines for non-violent crimes, the influence of wealth on mental health, political ideologies such as libertarianism, and the role of the state.

## [Wendelstein 7-X: Gigajoule energy turnover generated for eight minutes](https://www.ipp.mpg.de/5322229/01_23)

- The Wendelstein 7-X nuclear fusion experiment in Germany has achieved a significant milestone by generating a power plasma with a gigajoule energy turnover for eight minutes.
- This surpasses the targeted energy turnover of 1 gigajoule and sets a new record for discharge time.
- The experiment aims to increase the energy turnover to 18 gigajoules and maintain plasma stability for half an hour, with the goal of developing a climate-friendly and sustainable power plant using magnetic fields to confine hydrogen plasma in a vacuum chamber.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37092212)

- The Wendelstein 7-X stellerator reactor is a promising alternative to the tokamak reactor for generating gigajoule energy for eight minutes.
- Fusion reactors face challenges such as finding a viable vessel to contain the fusion reaction and identifying preferred fuel sources.
- The design and functionality of stellarators and tokamaks are discussed, highlighting their differences and engineering challenges.
- Stellerators have potential for fusion reactor development, but manufacturing and simulation complexities need to be addressed.
- Converting fusion energy into usable electricity is an important area of research.
- Funding sources, safety considerations, and the viability of fusion technology are explored.
- Practical implementation of fusion as an energy source and its impact on global warming are discussed.
- The limitations and benefits of fusion technology are considered.

## [YouTube-Dl Site Goes Offline as Hosting Provider Enforces Court-Ordered Ban](https://torrentfreak.com/youtube-dl-site-goes-offline-as-hosting-provider-enforces-court-ordered-ban-230809/)

- The website for youtube-dl, a popular YouTube-ripping software, has been removed by hosting provider Uberspace following a court order in a copyright infringement lawsuit.
- Sony, Warner, and Universal filed the lawsuit alleging that the software allowed users to circumvent YouTube's copyright protection measures.
- Uberspace initially appealed the ruling but had to take down the website after the music companies posted a bond, although they plan to continue the legal battle in hopes of overturning the order.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37089545)

- The discussion focuses on the legal and ethical considerations of downloading videos from YouTube and other streaming platforms, including copyright infringement and intellectual property laws.
- It explores the role of platforms in enforcing copyright and the potential impact on content creators.
- Alternative platforms, the importance of archiving and creative remixing, and concerns about restrictions on downloading and archiving content are also discussed.

## [Tailscale vs. Narrowlink](https://narrowlink.com/docs/comparisons/tailscale)

- Narrowlink and Tailscale are open-source solutions for secure remote access and connectivity across networks.
- Tailscale is a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) platform that provides a zero-config VPN using the WireGuard protocol, with a peer-to-peer mesh architecture.
- Narrowlink is a self-hosted platform with a client-agent-gateway model, offering flexibility, transparency, and security, along with optional end-to-end encryption.
- Narrowlink supports granular access control, can be deployed behind a CDN, and offers more options for publishing web services than Tailscale.
- Tailscale focuses on device connectivity, ease of use, and raw throughput performance, while Narrowlink prioritizes customization, access control, and security through a self-hosted solution.
- Narrowlink is more efficient in terms of binary size, memory usage, and CPU usage than Tailscale.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37089739)

- The discussion compares Tailscale and Narrowlink, two open source solutions for remote access and connectivity.
- There is a debate surrounding Tailscale's open source nature due to its closed server, although an open-source implementation called Headscale exists.
- Tailscale is praised for its user-friendly web interface, value proposition, and additional features like MagicDNS and SSH key management.

## [80% of bosses say they regret earlier return-to-office plans](https://www.cnbc.com/2023/08/11/80percent-of-bosses-say-they-regret-earlier-return-to-office-plans.html)

- 80% of bosses regret their initial decisions on return-to-office plans, realizing they should have considered employee preferences instead of relying solely on executive opinions.
- Companies like Disney, Starbucks, and BlackRock are requiring more in-person work, while Zoom reversed its policy to allow employees to choose between hybrid, in-person, or remote work.
- Companies involving employees in decision-making have had greater success in returning to the office, while those with strict policies without employee input are experiencing turnover issues. Companies like Ernst & Young have seen positive responses from employees after implementing reimbursements for commuting and childcare costs. It may take another year or two for companies to establish a content office routine for both employees and bosses.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37093854)

- Employers are expressing regrets about their plans to bring employees back to the office.
- Misconceptions about work from home (WFH) productivity are being discussed.
- Employees are voicing their preference for remote work.
- Employers have various reasons for pushing for a return to the office, including real estate investments and the desire for a physical presence.
- Productivity and effectiveness in remote work compared to the office are being debated, considering factors such as management, challenges, and motivations.
- The limitations of remote work are acknowledged, with an emphasis on the importance of team cohesion.
- Discussions are taking place regarding the impact of remote work on relationships and job satisfaction, as well as the drawbacks of open office plans.
- Both the advantages and disadvantages of remote work and in-office work are being explored, with a focus on productivity.
- Concerns about supervision and underperformance in remote work are being debated, with proposed solutions.
- Executive decision-making on remote work and power dynamics between capital and labor are also being addressed.
- There are mixed opinions on remote work and office environments, with discussions on preferences, benefits, and challenges.
- The experiences of exclusion for remote employees during team meetings are being raised, highlighting managerial shortcomings.

## [Fine-Tuning Llama-2: A Comprehensive Case Study for Tailoring Custom Models](https://www.anyscale.com/blog/fine-tuning-llama-2-a-comprehensive-case-study-for-tailoring-models-to-unique-applications)

- Fine-tuning Llama-2 models for specific tasks in natural language processing offers superior performance compared to GPT-4 in certain tasks.
- The use of Ray and Anyscale platforms enables faster and more manageable fine-tuning processes.
- Challenges and limitations of fine-tuning, prompt engineering, and the potential of few-shot prompting are examined, showing promising improvements in accuracy and performance, particularly in data tables and math reasoning tasks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37090632)

- This article explores the topic of fine-tuning custom models, with a specific focus on the Llama-2 model.
- The conversation includes discussions on the differences between the RAG approach and fine-tuning, as well as segmenting fine-tuning models and the impact of excluding unnecessary text in code generation.
- There is also a discussion on optimizing large language models using simulation methods and combining code blocks.
- The article mentions the cost associated with training models of different sizes and the potential use of fine-tuned BERT models for NER tasks.
- It also raises a question about whether Colab Pro can be used for fine-tuning Llama-v2-7b.

## [Infisical – open-source HashiCorp Vault alternative](https://github.com/Infisical/infisical)

- Infisical is an open-source platform for managing secrets with end-to-end encryption.
- It offers a user-friendly dashboard, client SDKs, and native integrations with platforms like GitHub.
- Features include secret versioning, access controls, secret scanning, and the option to deploy on premise or use the managed Infisical Cloud service.
- Users can contribute to the project and report security vulnerabilities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37090754)

- Infisical, an open-source alternative to HashiCorp Vault, has been launched, leading to discussions about the sustainability and monetization of open-source software.
- Infisical offers additional tools and features compared to Vault, but there are concerns about its viability and certain missing functionalities.
- The Infisical team has plans to release new features in the near future, addressing user concerns and welcoming suggestions for future development. Alternatives like CyberArk Conjur and Fortanix DSM are also mentioned in relation to HashiCorp Vault.

## [RFC 9446 Reflections on Ten Years Past the Snowden Revelations](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9446.html)

- This RFC reflects on the consequences of Edward Snowden's disclosure of NSA information in 2013, discussing its impact on security, privacy, and human rights.
- It features perspectives from various individuals and explores the efforts made by the IETF to enhance internet protocols and safeguard user privacy.
- The document acknowledges the difficulties in implementing privacy-protective protocols and emphasizes the importance of further research and advocacy in this field. It also addresses the historical background of encryption and the ongoing conflict between privacy and government surveillance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37091989)

- The discussions focus on whistleblowers like Edward Snowden and Julian Assange, government surveillance, abuse of power, media influence, and the balance between security and individual privacy.
- Various perspectives are shared, raising concerns about character assassination, government interference, media portrayal, and the importance of democratic oversight and accountability.
- Historical violations by the US government, such as the mistreatment of Native Americans, and the potential risks of data breaches and misuse of information are also addressed in the discussions.

## [Sam Bankman-Fried Sent Back to Jail After Leaking Diary of Ex-Lover](https://themessenger.com/business/sbf-thrown-in-jail-for-tampering-with-star-witness-in-upcoming-fraud-trial)

- Sam Bankman-Fried, founder of FTX, has been sent back to jail for leaking personal diary entries of his ex-girlfriend and former CEO of Alameda Research, Caroline Ellison, to the New York Times.
- A federal judge deemed this as witness intimidation and jury tampering, leading to Bankman-Fried's imprisonment even though he was previously granted bail for fraud charges.
- Ellison, who pled guilty to charges tied to the collapse of FTX, will testify against Bankman-Fried in exchange for a reduced sentence.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37093163)

- Sam Bankman-Fried, the founder of FTX, has been sent back to jail after allegedly leaking the diary of his ex-lover.
- This is on top of previous charges of witness tampering.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Squeeze the hell out of the system you have" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Squeeze%20the%20hell%20out%20of%20the%20system%20you%20have&subheading=Saturday,%20August%2012,%202023:%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
