---
slug: '/2024/03/03'
---

# 2024-03-03

## [New HSR Thresholds and Fees for 2024 Announced](https://www.ftc.gov/business-guidance/blog/2024/03/price-fixing-algorithm-still-price-fixing)

- New HSR thresholds and filing fees for 2024 have been announced, emphasizing competition in the marketplace.
- The changes will be implemented on February 5, 2024.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39575803)

- The discussion delves into algorithms like YieldStar by RealPage, used to determine rental prices, raising concerns about potential price fixing and collusion among landlords, which could breach antitrust laws.
- Ethical and legal implications of algorithmic pricing on rental rates, tenant bargaining power, market competition, and industry oversight are scrutinized, emphasizing issues regarding price fixing, collusion, regulatory scrutiny, tax considerations, and market influence.
- Comparisons to other sectors, like car insurance, are made to illustrate the wider effects of price-fixing strategies on consumer options and market behavior.

## [SoundThinking's Surveillance Raises Civil Rights Concerns](https://computer.rip/2024-03-01-listening-in-on-the-neighborhood.html)

- A leaked spreadsheet in 2024 exposed that ShotSpotter (now SoundThinking) deployed acoustic sensors in cities to detect gunfire for law enforcement, sparking criticism over secrecy and civil rights implications.
- The concentration of sensors in Albuquerque suggests a link between income levels and surveillance, raising concerns around privacy and misuse of surveillance tech amidst ShotSpotter's evidence manipulation and lack of public accountability.
- Despite assertions of precision, there are limited independent assessments on the system's efficacy, highlighting the need for transparency and oversight in surveillance technologies.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39576974)

- The article delves into the controversy surrounding the Albuquerque Police Department's use of ShotSpotter technology for combating gun crime, highlighting concerns about effectiveness, transparency, privacy, and accountability.
- Issues include the system's high volume of priority calls, potential data manipulation, privacy worries, surveillance data misuse, policing biases, and civil rights impact.
- Criticism focuses on deploying ShotSpotter in low-income areas without proper supervision, along with doubts about data accuracy, privacy breaches under the Wiretap Act, and potential overpolicing and racial biases in surveillance application.

## [Wintergatan's Mesmerizing Marble Machine Music](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IvUU8joBb1Q)

- The video showcases a marble machine playing Wintergatan's music, combining different sounds and instruments to produce a distinctive piece.
- It begins with the machine starting, marbles rolling, instruments playing, and the music evolving, culminating in a gradual conclusion.
- The video ends with the marbles halting, the machine shutting down, and a moment of silence.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39573093)

- The Wintergatan Marble Machine, a musical instrument project by creator Wintergatan, has faced challenges due to over-engineering and perfectionism, impacting the creator's mental health."
- Wintergatan's shift towards designing marble gates highlights the toll taken on creativity, inspiring the maker community despite varying opinions on progress."
- The project stimulates discussions on balancing innovation, perfectionism, and enjoyment in creative pursuits, along with comparisons to other creative endeavors and the impact of recommendation algorithms on online platforms."

## [Optimizing Code in Go for One Billion Row Challenge](https://benhoyt.com/writings/go-1brc/)

- Ben Hoyt optimized Go code to tackle the One Billion Row Challenge, reaching a notable processing time of 3.99 seconds for weather station data, by minimizing memory allocations and enhancing parsing techniques.
- His approach outperformed traditional UNIX tools, showcasing the benefits of custom methods, parallelization, and selective avoidance of standard library functions for enhanced efficiency.
- The emphasis on code optimization not only boosts user experience but also leads to cost savings in data processing workflows, as highlighted by Hoyt's experience.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39578501)

- Participants are discussing performance optimization for handling large datasets, focusing on the One Billion Row Challenge in Go.
- They compare Java, Go, Python, and .NET, considering memory constraints, file processing, goroutine performance, and using databases for speed.
- Emphasis is placed on language structure, libraries, and compiler technology impact on performance, highlighting the significance of code optimization over hardware upgrades for better performance.

## [Crafting a Minecraft Server in Bash: Overcoming Challenges and Creative Solutions](https://sdomi.pl/weblog/15-witchcraft-minecraft-server-in-bash/)

- The author shares their experience creating a Minecraft server in Bash, addressing challenges like binary data parsing and optimizing performance.
- The project, Witchcraft, faces limitations with decimal numbers and multiplayer functionality, requiring the latest BusyBox version for operation.
- The post has garnered praise for its innovative use of Bash scripting in Minecraft, sparking discussions on handling floating point numbers, NULs, and real-time server setup in various forums.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39572858)

- The post highlights creating a Minecraft server from scratch using Bash, sparking discussions on the technical aspects and potential of such a project.
- Comments delve into the significance of Minecraft in the modding and game development community, as well as related topics like modding Unity games and the open-source nature of Minecraft.
- There is also mention of the role of custom servers in gaming, adding depth to the discussion on game servers and customization options.

## [Mathematicians Prove P贸lya's Conjecture on Disk Eigenvalues](https://phys.org/news/2024-03-mathematicians-plya-conjecture-eigenvalues-disk.html)

- Mathematicians at the University of Montreal have resolved P贸lya's conjecture for the eigenvalues of a disk, a 70-year-old math problem that was previously unsolved.
- They utilized spectral geometry to delve into wave propagation, offering a theoretical solution with implications for computational mathematics.
- This breakthrough underscores the importance and versatility of mathematical findings across different disciplines, emphasizing the elegance and significance of mathematics in practical applications.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39572106)

- Mathematicians have proven P贸lya's conjecture for the eigenvalues of a disk, focusing on sorting and ordering the eigenvalues.
- The Gerschgorin Theorem states that each eigenvalue of a matrix is within a disk in the complex plane, with implications for determining eigenvalues in matrices with real values and discussing matrix symmetry.
- Discussions include P贸lya's conjecture for Euclidean domains, Brauer's oval of Cassini for eigenvalue approximation, and the practical applications of eigenvalues in simulations and computer aided engineering, with a humorous remark about SSDs and their eigenvalues.

## [Introduction to Data Science: HarvardX Class Notes (2019)](http://rafalab.dfci.harvard.edu/dsbook-part-1/)

- The Introduction to Data Science originated as class notes for the HarvardX Data Science Series, now available on GitHub under a Creative Commons license.
- The book acknowledges the developers of R and other packages, contributors, teaching assistants, and support from NIH grant R25GM114818.
- Appreciation is expressed to all who contributed through GitHub pull requests or suggestions, with provided links to the book, updates, and additional resources.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39571439)

- A Reddit thread compares R and Python in data science, emphasizing R's strengths in quick data exploration and statistical analysis.
- Discussions include challenges in error handling, reproducible builds, and package management, with suggestions for improvements and premium packages.
- The potential of Julia as a successor to R is considered, praising R's advantages in exploratory data analysis (EDA) and statistical data science, raising debates over its effectiveness in data visualization, financial modeling, scientific research, and machine learning when compared to Python.

## [CS 6120: Advanced Compilers - Lesson 1 Overview](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/courses/cs6120/2023fa/self-guided/)


### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39577878)

- CS 6120 is a PhD-level online course by Cornell University on advanced compilers taught by Adrian Sampson, covering programming language implementation, garbage collection, compiler testing, and design.
- Participants engage in discussions on the evolution of the field, the necessity for fresh content for functional languages, and how newer technologies like SIMD influence compiler development.

## [Minimal Phone Embraces Simplicity with E Ink Display & QWERTY Keyboard](https://newatlas.com/mobile-technology/minimal-phone-eink-keyboard/)

- The Minimal phone is a minimalist handset featuring an E Ink display and physical QWERTY keyboard to minimize distractions.
- Running on the MnmlOS platform, a modified version of Android, it will offer restricted access to third-party apps, emphasizing basic functions like calling, texting, and email for productivity and simple entertainment.
- User privacy and security take precedence in the design, with a planned crowdfunding campaign for production, priced at $400 retail, and long-term support with updates for over five years.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39574397)

- Minimalist phones with e-ink displays and physical keyboards are praised for simplicity and long battery life but face concerns over lag and limited functionality.
- Users discuss the trade-off between minimalism and practicality, debating the use of existing tech with offline capabilities versus boutique devices.
- Companies like Mudita, Punkt, and Light are criticized for not having the expertise to create fully functional devices, with suggestions to modify current technology for a simpler phone experience, emphasizing the need to balance minimalism, functionality, and privacy in handheld devices.

## [Audio Engineering Pioneer and Amateur Radio Icon, Bob Heil K9EID, Passes Away](https://www.arrl.org/news/bob-heil-k9eid-silent-key)

- Dr. Bob Heil, K9EID, an audio engineering pioneer for live rock music and dedicated amateur radio enthusiast, passed away at 83 after battling cancer, leaving a lasting legacy in both industries.
- Founder of Heil Sound, he was renowned for his technical expertise and mentorship in the ham radio community, generously supporting organizations like ARRL.
- The amateur radio community is honoring Dr. Heil with heartfelt tributes, emphasizing his technical accomplishments and compassionate nature; the ARRL website showcases a photo gallery and news pieces commemorating his life.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39573756)

- The amateur radio community and sound engineering industry are mourning the passing of Bob Heil, a renowned figure known for his expertise in radios, microphones, and concert sound systems.
- Bob was celebrated for his generosity in sharing knowledge and supporting others in the industry, leaving behind a legacy of contributions that will not be forgotten.
- His impact on the field resonates through the heartfelt memories shared by many who admired and learned from his work.

## [SpaceX reaches 17Mb/s speed from satellite to Samsung phone](https://twitter.com/elonmusk/status/1764032892663906313)

- SpaceX accomplished a high download speed of 17Mb/s from a satellite to an unmodified Samsung Android phone, shared by Elon Musk on March 2, 2024.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39578416)

- SpaceX reached a speed of 17Mb/s transmitting from a satellite to a stock Android phone, boasting wide beam coverage ideal for remote regions.
- The technology incorporates 45-meter deployable antennas to ensure broad coverage, with a focus on complementing traditional mobile networks rather than replacing them, proving beneficial for emergencies and SMS communications.
- Starlink's advancements, exceeding rivals like Iridium, are being harnessed in various sectors such as military operations, commercial applications, and post-disaster situations, showcasing its potential for multicast emergency broadcasts and IP functionalities.

## [Rogue Wikipedia Editors Create Roads-Exclusive Website](https://gizmodo.com/competing-wikipedia-editors-only-about-roads-aaroads-1851298769)

- The US Roads Project, a group of Wikipedia editors focusing on US roads, split from Wikipedia to AARoads due to disagreements on sourcing standards.
- Conflict arose over defining valid sources, with some supporting stricter rules and others favoring more flexible guidelines.
- Departure of the US Roads Project from Wikipedia resulted in the resignation of some editors; members may consider returning to Wikipedia in the future.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39572441)

- The debate revolves around establishing a distinct platform on Wikipedia for less formal or less prominent content through ideas like parallel Wikipedia versions or federating the existing platform.
- Discussions encompass citing sources, segregating niche interest wikis from mainstream Wikipedia, hurdles for novice contributors, and utilizing Wikipedia as a tertiary source.
- Topics include censorship, moderation, handling extraneous specifics, and the impact of specific editors on content, emphasizing the importance of non-fandom wikis, precise digital libraries, and shedding light on Wikipedia's constraints.

## [Generating Transparent Images with Latent Transparency in SD WebUI](https://github.com/layerdiffusion/sd-forge-layerdiffusion)

- The document introduces a work-in-progress extension for SD WebUI that produces transparent images and layers with latent transparency.
- It includes model releases for SDXL, instructions on generating transparent images using specific models, and plans to optimize and launch new models.
- Recommendations cover modifying samplers and model settings, along with updates on the sampler adjustments for the model.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39577164)

- Users are discussing the use of Stable Diffusion XL for creating transparent images, highlighting its effectiveness with translucent materials and its potential applications in inpainting and AI rotoscoping.
- The author, Lvmin Zhang, known for their work in image generation and AI, is behind the software, with previous projects ControlNet and Fooocus receiving mentions.
- The open-source aspect of the software is praised, with users drawing comparisons to other techniques and acknowledging its versatility in different image processing activities.

## [US Health Payment Processor Hit by Ransomware, Prescription Market Impacted](https://arstechnica.com/security/2024/03/us-prescription-market-hamstrung-for-9-days-so-far-by-ransomware-attack/)

- AlphV, a Russian-speaking ransomware group, targeted the largest US health care payment processor, leading to a nine-day struggle for pharmacies, health care providers, and patients to access life-saving medications.
- Operating as a ransomware-as-a-service model, AlphV has amassed over $300 million in ransom payments in the past.
- This incident underscores the severe consequences ransomware attacks can have on critical infrastructure, following previous attacks on entities like Colonial Pipeline and hospital networks, with law enforcement facing difficulties in disrupting AlphV's operations, posing a continued threat to US organizations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39578248)

- A ransomware attack has significantly disrupted the US prescription market for 9 days, impacting eligibility, claim submissions, and access to prescriptions for doctors, patients, and admin staff.
- Discussions emphasize the importance of enhancing cybersecurity measures, addressing vulnerabilities in the healthcare system, and implementing more effective security protocols to tackle cyber threats in the future.
- There are debates on insurance companies' involvement in healthcare decisions and criticisms of industry monopolies, underscoring the necessity for stricter regulations, improved security models, and increased investment in security measures to prevent future cybercriminal activities.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="New HSR Thresholds and Fees for 2024 Announced" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=New%20HSR%20Thresholds%20and%20Fees%20for%202024%20Announced&subheading=Sunday%2C%20March%203%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
