---
slug: '/2024/03/04'
---

# 2024-03-04

## [Optimizing CSS for Printing Webpages](https://voussoir.net/writing/css_for_printing)

- The article explains how to write CSS for printing webpages, focusing on creating print generators for forms and using @page in CSS to set printing preferences.
- It covers setting page size, margins, media queries, box model for margins and padding, and formatting articles for print, along with generating multiple pages with custom elements using JavaScript.
- Additionally, it discusses rendering pages on a website, manipulating page elements with JavaScript, setting print orientations, and including user interaction features like checkboxes, with a sample cheatsheet for HTML essentials and a CSS code snippet for styling webpages.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39584654)

- The article explores CSS strategies for printing on paper and the obstacles in converting HTML to PDF, discussing PDF pipeline challenges, Japanese typography, markdown to PDF conversion, and tools like InDesign and Paged.js.
- It addresses browser printing challenges like slow speed, footnotes support, and rendering canvas graphics, suggesting using diverse tools (e.g., thermal printers, JS libraries) and techniques for creating print-ready documents.
- Users debate using JavaScript or CSS for page headers/footers, PDF format issues, and alternative formats like EPUB, sharing tips on enhancing print features with CSS and HTML.

## [French Court Orders Orange to Pay €650,000 for GPL Violation](https://heathermeeker.com/2024/02/17/french-court-issues-damages-award-for-violation-of-gpl/)

- The Court of Appeal of Paris mandated Orange, a French telecommunications company, to compensate €500,000 for actual damages and €150,000 for moral damages for breaching the GPL by infringing Entr’Ouvert’s Lasso software copyright.
- Orange utilized Lasso software in a government portal without adhering to the GPL licensing conditions, resulting in this legal dispute that culminated in the recent damages ruling by the Paris Court of Appeal.
- The Court of Cassation's reversal of a prior judgment set the stage for the monetary sanctions imposed on Orange following years of litigation surrounding this case.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39587344)

- A French court case exemplifies the importance of GPL enforcement, sparking discussions on open source licensing complexities and the preference for the MIT license by corporate lawyers for its simplicity.
- Debates include understanding GPL clauses, distribution rules, and using plugins with XGPL licenses, while challenges in enforcing legal judgments in open source projects are emphasized in the French legal system.
- Variations in copyright laws between Europe and the US concerning protecting authors' rights and enforcing open-source licenses highlight the need for clarity and compliance in software development and distribution.

## [Critique of Dead Butterfly Depictions](https://www.emilydamstra.com/please-enough-dead-butterflies/)

- Emily S. Damstra critiques the common misrepresentation of butterflies in art and products, emphasizing the need for accurate depictions in natural, lifelike poses over traditional pinned positions.
- The discussion addresses the symbolism of butterflies in art, the trend towards using live butterfly-based artwork in field guides, and the ongoing debate on their portrayal across different media.
- The article offers insights into the author's ongoing projects and encourages readers to subscribe for future updates.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39585207)

- The post examines the trend of rating emojis based on themes, analyzing its influence on people's perceptions.
- It explores how cultural context shapes visual elements in art and debates the accuracy of artistic representations of reality.
- Additionally, the discussion covers the portrayal and symbolism of butterflies in art and icons, emphasizing the importance of realistic depictions in scientific classification and suggesting ways to represent them more authentically in visual culture.

## [Bug in Windows API's Reader/Writer Locks](https://old.reddit.com/r/cpp/comments/1b55686/maybe_possible_bug_in_stdshared_mutex_on_windows/)

- Users are blocked due to a network policy and are prompted to log in or create an account with a distinct User-Agent.
- If users believe the block is a mistake, they can submit a ticket with their IP address and Reddit account details.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39581664)

- The discussion delves into issues regarding reader/writer locks in the Windows API, covering potential bugs, concurrency mechanisms, nested locking, and memory synchronization guarantees.
- It addresses challenges in reporting bugs to tech giants like Microsoft, alongside frustrations with support systems and email service providers.
- Mentioned are security vulnerabilities in MacOS and criticisms of classic Outlook and Office 365, emphasizing the complexities in managing bugs, concurrency, and software development practices in the tech industry.

## [Observable Framework 2.0 Revolutionizes Data App Development](https://simonwillison.net/2024/Mar/3/interesting-ideas-in-observable-framework/)

- Mike Bostock introduced Observable Framework 2.0, an open-source static site generator for developing visually appealing data apps, dashboards, and reports.
- The framework enables JavaScript integration in Markdown, provides hot-reloading, and emphasizes reactivity, simplifying data communication and presentation.
- Observable Framework targets developers aiming to construct impactful dashboards and reports, showcasing its potential for creating interactive dashboards and hinting at future applications.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39582745)

- The article explores the Observable Framework integrating with d3, Observable Plot, HTL, and the potential for AI integration, offering a simpler experience than traditional JavaScript.
- Users have resources to convert Observable flavored JS to vanilla JS, managing dependencies, virtual environments, dataloaders, and browser code execution are discussed.
- Some users express concerns about Observable potentially hijacking D3, reflecting varying perspectives on the integration.

## [Strategic Insights for Effective Kubernetes Utilization](https://paulbutler.org/2024/the-haters-guide-to-kubernetes/)

- Paul Butler discusses the benefits of using Kubernetes at Jamsocket, focusing on simplicity and utilizing a subset of its features effectively.
- He highlights running multiple processes, redundancy, and code-based configuration as key aspects of using Kubernetes efficiently.
- Paul mentions alternative solutions like Railway and Render, emphasizing the strategic use of Kubernetes with a clear understanding of its purpose.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39581976)

- The article explores the complexities and trade-offs of implementing Kubernetes (k8s) and the cultural implications of cloud providers versus on-premises infrastructure.
- It emphasizes the advantages and hurdles of Kubernetes, the debate between outsourcing and self-management, and differing viewpoints on Kubernetes' importance in diverse business settings.
- Additionally, it discusses the difficulties of utilizing custom solutions, criticisms of Kubernetes' intricacy, and compares it with tools like NixOS and Terraform, indicating that the choice to adopt Kubernetes hinges on specific needs and preferences.

## [Expert Advice on Solar Energy, Rugby Rules, and Byzantine Empire](https://gemini.google.com/share/238032386438?hl=en)

- The text encompasses diverse topics such as solar panel energy, rugby rules, and The Byzantine Empire.
- It includes guidance on organizing a closet, public speaking tips, internet slang explanations, and a code snippet for a function.
- Messages also address regrets for missing a wedding, congratulating a professor on an award, and seeking forgiveness for event absences.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39583473)

- Discussions range from exposing children to programming to biases in AI models, including Google's LLM performance and efforts to address biases.
- Topics involve the importance of C and Unix, AI technologies, coding, societal implications of technology, censorship, and AI ethics.
- Participants engage in debates on training AI models, Google's practices, and the delicate balance between freedom and restrictions in technology.

## [Improving PC Cooling with Python and Grafana](https://calbryant.uk/blog/better-pc-cooling-with-python/)

- Upgrading to a 5950X CPU led the author to address loud fan behavior by creating a Python script as a systemd service to manage fan and pump speeds based on temperature data.
- Resolving the issue involved utilizing sysfs with the nct6775 kernel module for fan control and k10temp for CPU temperature readings, opting for a simpler solution over Liquidctl and lm-sensors.
- The author improved their system's cooling efficiency and decreased noise levels by implementing this new control setup, alongside discussing the integration of Grafana and InfluxDB for monitoring while mentioning future enhancements and challenges.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39582116)

- Python and Grafana are being discussed for enhancing PC cooling by implementing PID control for fan controllers, exploring different methods like software options and thermal paste application.
- The conversation covers topics such as energy efficiency in programming languages, hardware configuration challenges, and the advantages of utilizing oversized coolers for temperature management.
- Users also share their experiences with various cooling solutions, including AIO coolers and ARM CPUs, contributing to a diverse discussion on optimizing PC cooling systems.

## [Supermium: Chromium-Based Browser for Legacy Windows Systems](https://win32subsystem.live/supermium/)

- Supermium is a Chromium-based web browser designed for Windows XP, 2003, Vista, 7, 8.x, and newer OS versions, offering enhanced privacy and usability compared to Google Chrome.
- Developed by Win32, this open-source browser supports Chrome extensions, custom tab features, and advanced security measures, striving to mirror Chrome's capabilities with added privacy improvements.
- Supermium targets users looking for a privacy-focused alternative while enjoying the functionality of Chrome on various Windows operating systems.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39580439)

- The debate delves into utilizing outdated operating systems such as Windows XP with contemporary web browsers, emphasizing security vulnerabilities, performance drawbacks, and possible advantages.
- Topics covered range from leveraging hardware acceleration for video processing to concerns regarding backdoors and spyware, advocating for virtual machine usage like Supermium for maintaining older OS compatibility.
- The discussion underscores the significance of regular software updates and the complexities of handling intricate software ecosystems, ultimately focusing on striking a balance between convenience and security in selecting an operating system.

## [French artists' 1899 Predictions for Life in 2000](https://www.openculture.com/2024/02/how-french-artists-in-1899-envisioned-what-life-would-look-like-in-the-year-2000.html)

- French artists in 1899 accurately predicted automated farming and robotic devices in postcards envisioning life in 2000, viewable online.
- The article delves into future predictions, highlighting Ted Mills' contributions to the arts.
- Open Culture, providing free educational resources like courses and audiobooks, depends on reader donations and is curated by founder Dan Colman.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39584566)

- The article explores French artists' 2000 predictions on future technology, emphasizing underwater exploration and overall technological evolution.
- It contrasts the challenges and expenses of underwater exploration with space exploration, highlighting military and oil industries' utilization of submarine technology.
- Additionally, it discusses advancements in biology, medicine, including regrowing teeth and limbs, alongside topics like road construction history, AI in sci-fi, AR/VR technology, and the potential of brain-computer interfaces, fusion power, flying cars, and whale conservation.

## [Motion Blur in Animation: Creating Realistic Effects](https://www.osar.fr/notes/motionblur/)

- The article discusses motion blur in animation, highlighting the importance of achieving a natural look by aligning with human vision and perception.
- It explains using a shutter function to create a smoother effect in fast-moving objects, emphasizing real-time infinite motion blur animation with a shader for objects like orbiting circles.
- The text covers the mathematical calculations and techniques for motion-blurred rotating objects and alternative methods for motion blur in ray-traced rendering, addressing challenges with surface normals and limitations of multisampled methods at high speeds.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39586828)

- The post explores the development of motion blur in rendering tech, highlighting the shift from basic box shutters to advanced methods, citing key papers and VFX implementations.
- It delves into the practical hurdles and artistic nuances of creating lifelike motion blur effects, offering insights into the process.
- Additionally, it discusses the effects of high refresh rates on visual perception, providing a comprehensive look at this evolving aspect of display technology.

## [A Woman Named "Steve": IT Pioneer, Entrepreneur, Philanthropist](https://www.computer.org/publications/tech-news/research/dame-stephanie-steve-shirley-computer-pioneer)

- Dame Stephanie Shirley, also known as "Steve," is a celebrated IT pioneer, entrepreneur, and philanthropist in Britain, renowned for founding "Freelance Programmers" in the 1960s.
- Shirley's tech company focused on hiring women re-entering the job market after having children, growing to employ over 8,500 individuals and reaching a valuation of $3 billion.
- Her contributions to software development include programming for Concorde's black box and collaborating with NATO, with a personal story of fleeing Nazi Europe and later becoming an influential figure in the IT sector, transitioning to supporting autism research in philanthropy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39585527)

- The article and discussion focus on the challenges women encounter in the tech sector, such as subtle sexism and gender biases, underlining the significance of gender diversity within tech teams.
- It highlights key individuals and historical events in computing history while sharing anecdotes and strategies to combat gender inequality and support women's involvement in tech.
- The conversation delves into the influence of gender norms on women in tech and the historical marginalization of women in the tech workforce.

## [Joplin: Your Secure and Versatile Note-Taking App](https://joplinapp.org/)

- Joplin is an open-source note-taking app enabling users to create multimedia notes, collaborate, save web pages, customize, and access notes across devices.
- The app prioritizes privacy and security, offering end-to-end encryption and operating under strict EU privacy regulations from its base in France.
- Positive feedback highlights Joplin's user-friendly interface and robust features, solidifying its position as a favored note-taking tool in the market.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39581855)

- Users are discussing note-taking apps such as Joplin and Obsidian, focusing on features, performance, and user preferences.
- Concerns include frustrations with PDF integration, a preference for plaintext notes, syncing methods, and the need for improved file organization within the apps.
- Alternative apps like Plume, Qownnote, and Typora are suggested, with an emphasis on flexibility, simplicity, and security in users' preferred applications.

## [Master Google's SRE Principles and Best Practices](https://sre.google/sre-book/table-of-contents/)

- The book offers a detailed exploration of Site Reliability Engineering (SRE) principles and practices utilized at Google, delving into areas like risk management, automation, incident management, and more.
- It provides valuable insights on management strategies, collaboration, and cross-industry lessons learned, enriching the understanding of implementing reliable production services.
- Appendices feature tools and templates aimed at enhancing the effective management of production services.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39580346)

- The discussion highlights the importance of clear communication between feature developers and reliability roles, focusing on the distinctions between DevOps and the Site Reliability Engineering (SRE) approach in modern software development.
- It delves into the evolving responsibilities of SREs, sysadmins, and software engineers, underscoring the significance of job titles and industry recognition.
- The conversation also touches on Google's SRE practices' applicability, the impact of the SRE book on system reliability, and the convergence of SRE, Production Engineering (PE), and DevOps roles.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Optimizing CSS for Printing Webpages" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Optimizing%20CSS%20for%20Printing%20Webpages&subheading=Monday%2C%20March%204%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
