---
slug: '/2024/03/09'
---

# 2024-03-09

## [Building a Safe Home Lab: Essential Guide](https://linuxblog.io/home-lab-beginners-guide-hardware/)

- The blog post highlights the significance of establishing a home lab for safe tech experimentation.
- It covers selecting hardware, setting up a location, choosing networking gear, and servers for the lab.
- Recommendations are given for equipment such as modems, UPS systems, cooling fans, routers, switches, and server brands.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39640992)

- The article explores creating a home lab with compact computers like NUCs or Dell SFFs for space efficiency and quiet operation.
- Users suggest OptiPlex PCs and Odroid SBCs for home labs, discussing networking, storage, container orchestration, OS options, and disaster recovery.
- It delves into experiences with hardware, software tools, and community assistance for managing VMs and containers at home.

## [Introducing Hatchet: The New Open-Source Task Queue](https://github.com/hatchet-dev/hatchet)

- Gabe and Alexander are creating Hatchet, an open-source distributed task queue, as a competitor to Celery and BullMQ, emphasizing reliability and observability, with Postgres as the queue's foundation.
- Hatchet aims for full transactional enqueueing and simplified task observability for developers, running workers on various VMs, clusters, and regions.
- The project includes optimizations for latency, along with enhancements such as retries, timeouts, and cron schedules, with feedback on the platform encouraged.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39643136)

- Discussion focuses on Hatchet, an open-source distributed task queue utilizing Postgres, known for its reliability and observability.
- Users appreciate Hatchet for its unique features and simple infrastructure compared to tools like RabbitMQ, Oban, and Graphile Worker.
- Talks cover improving Graphile Worker's management UI, exploring AI startups' claims, alternative backend setups for Celery, and challenges in job scheduling and distributed workflows.

## [Teen Open-Sources Wallstreetlocal for Transparent SEC Filings](https://github.com/bruhbruhroblox/wallstreetlocal)

- Anonyo, a seventeen-year-old from Southeast Michigan, has open-sourced his project, wallstreetlocal, focusing on making SEC filings, particularly the 13F form, more transparent and accessible for free.
- The project's aim is to democratize access to SEC filings and enhance transparency, showcasing Anonyo's passion for computer programming and ambition to be part of startups in the future.
- Anonyo encourages feedback and suggestions for site enhancement, highlighting his openness to constructive input.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39643833)

- Anonyo, a seventeen-year-old from Southeast Michigan, developed wallstreetlocal to offer free access to SEC 13F filings for companies with holdings exceeding $100 million.
- The project aims to democratize SEC filings, receiving positive feedback and suggestions for enhancement, such as GIS/mapping software for property ownership and addressing differences between companies and asset managers in SEC filings.
- The expansion of the project with new features is ongoing, encouraging user contributions to enhance accessibility and usefulness of SEC filings, involving feedback on additional data, features, hosting challenges, and investment strategies.

## [Self-Control Key to Perceived Power and Success](https://today.ucsd.edu/story/having-self-control-leads-to-power)

- Individuals with high self-control are viewed as powerful and are more likely to receive power from their peers, according to UC San Diego's Rady School of Management research.
- The study, including seven experiments with 3,500 participants and published in the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, demonstrates that those with high self-control are considered more suitable for positions of power.
- Not achieving ambitious goals can lead to a perception of lower power, even if the performance matches peers, underlining the significance of self-control in achieving success and power in different objectives.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39640647)

- The discussion delves into the link between self-control and power, reevaluating the conventional wisdom on resisting temptations and considering factors like socio-economic status.
- Personal stories on weight loss and medication underscore the significance of habitual behaviors in self-control, emphasizing its role in achieving success and personal development.
- The conversation expands to societal influences, discrimination, and corporate goal-setting impacting self-control, and the intricate relationship between self-control, power, and executive behaviors like alcohol consumption is examined, citing figures like Elon Musk.

## [Breakthrough: High-Temp Superconducting Magnets Transform Fusion](https://news.mit.edu/2024/tests-show-high-temperature-superconducting-magnets-fusion-ready-0304)

- MIT and Commonwealth Fusion Systems have tested high-temperature superconducting magnets for a compact fusion power plant, setting a world record with a 20 tesla magnetic field strength.
- The use of the new superconducting material REBCO enabled innovative design elements, like no insulation around the superconducting tape, making fusion energy production more efficient.
- The successful testing demonstrates the potential of building a fusion power plant that generates more energy than it consumes, highlighting the critical role of collaboration and expertise from MIT's Plasma Science and Fusion Center.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39647331)

- High-temperature superconducting magnets are suitable for fusion, but they encounter issues in MRI machines due to helium cooling and brittleness.
- Challenges like economic feasibility, supply constraints, and noise from gradient coils limit their wider use.
- MIT's Sparc/Arc reactor design and the retrofitting challenges in ITER are discussed, along with regulatory concerns, waste management, safety, and potential excess tritium production in the fusion energy debate.

## [New York Times Defends Wordle Clone Takedowns](https://www.theverge.com/2024/3/8/24094234/ny-times-wordle-clones-files-dmca-copyright-takedowns-knockoffs)

- The New York Times is sending legal takedown requests to developers on GitHub for Wordle clones, citing ownership of the name and gameplay.
- Some developers are removing their clones to avoid legal disputes with the Times, even if created before the Times acquired Wordle.
- This situation underscores the copyright infringement challenges present in the gaming sector and the importance of protecting intellectual property rights.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39645991)

- The New York Times is sending DMCA takedowns to Wordle clones, citing trademark and copyright infringement.
- Debate is ongoing about whether gameplay is copyrightable, with accusations of bullying by the NYT.
- Wordle's success, comparisons to other word games, and potential legal concerns about gameplay mechanics and word lists are under discussion, with criticism aimed at the NYT for their legal actions and content decisions.

## [Apple Reinstates Epic's Account in EU](https://twitter.com/TimSweeneyEpic/status/1766158416093798866)

- The Digital Markets Act (DMA) faced a significant hurdle when Apple removed Epic Games from the App Store.
- Subsequently, the DMA achieved a milestone victory when the European Commission's investigation prompted Apple to retract its actions.
- This event highlights the DMA's role in regulating digital markets and tech giants' behavior.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39643685)

- Apple has reinstated Epic's account in the EU, indicating a potential resolution to their previous conflicts.
- More in-depth information and discussions regarding this development are available on a dedicated page for additional context.

## [Piano on Paper: Play with Webcam and Paper Keys](https://github.com/Mayuresh1611/Paper-Piano)

- The Paper Piano project enables users to play piano on paper via a webcam and two A4-sized white papers, supporting two fingers currently.
- Setting up the project entails Python 3.11, repository cloning, and installing requirements, while using it necessitates proper webcam positioning and lighting.
- Training the model includes adjusting the camera, moving fingers deliberately, and distinguishing between touched and untouched fingers, with contributions encouraged for enhancing musical instrument accessibility.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39643958)

- GitHub users are exploring a browser-based virtual piano simulation tracking finger positions with mediapipe, discussing high-end digital piano actions, similarities with acoustic piano actions, miniaturizing grand piano actions, and integrating VR technology.
- The conversation highlights the significance of weight and haptic feedback in piano keys, learning methods (on paper vs. real keyboard), and the potential of brain-computer interfaces in VR environments.
- Users are evaluating virtual laser keyboards' efficiency and cost, proposing enhancements through 3D printing technology.

## [Deception Uncovered: Superconductivity Scandal Rocks Physics Lab](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-024-00716-2)

- Physicist Ranga Dias' claim of discovering room-temperature superconductors was retracted due to data manipulation and misconduct allegations, impacting young scientists' careers and prompting questions about institutional oversight.
- Dias' research papers on superconductivity faced scrutiny for lack of transparency and data manipulation, leading to investigations by multiple journals and persistent doubts about research validity.
- The fallout includes personnel actions, loss of lab access, and potential NSF grant impact for Dias, with related research facing retractions or corrections, causing concern in the scientific community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39642135)

- The article addresses deception and power dynamics in academia, focusing on a physics lab scandal and the lack of advisor accountability for PhD students.
- It highlights challenges like dealing with bad advisors, job security, and immigration laws, emphasizing transparency in scientific research and the importance of reproducibility and data availability.
- Specific cases like cold fusion and room-temperature superconductors are discussed, emphasizing the significance of replicating and validating research findings for maintaining integrity and credibility in scientific research.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Building a Safe Home Lab: Essential Guide" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Building%20a%20Safe%20Home%20Lab%3A%20Essential%20Guide&subheading=Saturday%2C%20March%209%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
