---
slug: '/2024/03/13'
---

# 2024-03-13

## [Apple Enables Direct App Downloads from Websites in EU](https://www.macrumors.com/2024/03/12/apple-announces-app-downloads-from-websites/)

- Apple revealed new updates for developers in the European Union, enabling them to distribute apps directly from webpages, create in-app promotions, and provide apps exclusively from their own catalog.
- Developers must adhere to specific criteria and agree to continuous obligations to distribute apps from their websites, accessible post a software update in the spring.
- These modifications align with Apple's adherence to the Digital Markets Act in the EU.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39678532)

- The conversation delves into various subjects concerning Apple, such as EU regulations, privacy worries, developer fees, consumer choices, and competitiveness in the app store sector.
- Topics range from critiques of Apple's profit-focused strategies to discussions on cookie-consent notifications, views on Apple's security protocols, the ramifications of the Digital Markets Act on Apple, and the influence of individual users on tech firms.
- The debate broadly covers user control, privacy, security, competition, and the equilibrium between constraints and liberty in the tech field.

## [Meta Expands Investment in AI with 24k GPU Clusters for AGI Development](https://engineering.fb.com/2024/03/12/data-center-engineering/building-metas-genai-infrastructure/)

- Meta has revealed the development of two 24k GPU clusters to advance its AI capabilities, focusing on enhancing hardware, network, storage, design, and performance for various AI tasks, including training AI models like Llama 3.
- These clusters align with Meta's goal of building artificial general intelligence (AGI) and showcase the company's dedication to open compute and open-source principles through their design on Grand Teton, OpenRack, and PyTorch.
- Meta plans to expand its infrastructure to accommodate 350,000 NVIDIA H100 GPUs by the end of 2024, emphasizing performance optimization, ease of use, and a commitment to responsible AI development through collaborations with academic and industry partners.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39680997)

- The discussion encompasses various aspects of Meta's GenAI infrastructure, such as technical specifics, optimization endeavors, AI industry hurdles, investment tactics, hardware progress, and AI applications in creative fields.
- It explores the potential influence of AI on different sectors, worries about job loss, and how AI could transform the creative workflow.
- The conversation also touches on Nvidia's market dominance in AI hardware, selling challenges of hardware like Google's TPUs, Meta's open-source dedication, and a potential switch to closed-source technology.

## [NYPD Withdraws Warrantless Subpoena for Copwatcher's Twitter](https://hellgatenyc.com/nypd-warrantless-subpoena-copwatcher-social-media)

- The NYPD issued a warrantless subpoena for a copwatcher's social media account but retracted it after facing a challenge to justify it in court.
- Michael Clancy, the copwatcher, was alerted by Twitter about the subpoena and sought legal assistance.
- Legal experts questioned the NYPD's authority to issue warrantless subpoenas without adequate justification, reflecting concerns about the police department's use of such subpoenas for social media data and their hesitancy to support them in court.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39681920)

- The article explores the issuance of warrantless subpoenas by the NYPD for a copwatcher's Twitter account, sparking a debate on government officials' accountability and necessary legal adjustments.
- Switzerland's distinctive democracy, recent anti-terrorism laws, and challenges are discussed, emphasizing the definition and efficacy of democracy, lack of bipartisanship in the US, police accountability, and legal hurdles like qualified immunity.
- The discussion extends to transparency in policing, attorneys' role in legal representation, concerns about authority abuse, intelligence collaborations with foreign nations, resource allocation in law enforcement, and the legal implications of subpoenas in ensuring police accountability and driving political change.

## [Meet Devin: World's First Fully Autonomous AI Software Engineer](https://www.cognition-labs.com/blog)

- Cognition Labs secured a $21 million Series-A funding round spearheaded by Founders Fund to develop Devin, the inaugural fully autonomous AI software engineer, excelling in long-term reasoning, bug fixing, and self-training AI models.
- Devin surpasses existing models in the SWE-bench coding benchmark, leading Cognition Labs to pioneer AI teammates with sophisticated reasoning skills, actively recruiting engineers to collaborate with Devin.
- The company comprises industry experts from leading organizations with substantial experience in applied AI, emphasizing their dedication to advancing AI technologies.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39679787)

- Developers are frustrated with using AI for coding due to challenges faced by AI projects and concerns of a potential AI winter.
- Limitations of Large Language Models (LLMs) like GPT in coding and writing tasks are discussed, with differing opinions on their effectiveness compared to professional writers.
- The conversation explores the impact of AI on the job market, society, and software engineering, including experiences and concerns about AI tools like Copilot and ChatGPT, raising skepticism about AI's capability to entirely substitute human skills in coding.

## [Enhanced App Distribution Options in the EU](https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=8c1m8hqt)

- Apple is offering developers in the EU enhanced flexibility by introducing new options like alternative app stores and the capability to distribute apps directly from their websites.
- By agreeing to the Alternative Terms Addendum for Apps in the EU, developers can leverage these new opportunities, with Web Distribution expected to launch later this spring.
- Developers will be provided with APIs to support web distribution and seamless integration with system features, as outlined in the "Getting ready for Web Distribution in the EU" document.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39678555)

- More app distribution options are now available in the European Union, as per the announcement on developer.apple.com.

## [Advancements in Weather Forecast Accuracy](https://ourworldindata.org/weather-forecasts)

- Technology advancements have significantly enhanced the accuracy of weather forecasts, making a four-day forecast today as reliable as a one-day forecast three decades ago.
- Access to precise weather forecasts is vital for saving lives and safeguarding livelihoods by providing early alerts for storms, heatwaves, and disasters.
- Global disparities persist in accessing accurate weather predictions, especially in low-income nations, highlighting the need to invest in communication, early warning systems, and cutting-edge technologies like Artificial Intelligence (AI) for climate change adaptation and resilience against extreme weather conditions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39678783)

- The discussion delves into the variability of weather forecast accuracy from different sources, emphasizing the significance of local meteorologists and raw data for precise forecasts.
- Limitations of Siri and Apple Weather in predicting rain accurately are debated, alongside advancements in weather forecasting tech like radar tracking for short-term predictions.
- Climate change's impact on weather forecasting, concerns over Apple's acquisition of Dark Sky, and the importance of accurate forecasts, especially in low-income countries, are key points of the discussion.

## [Nvtop: GPU Task Monitor for Multiple Vendors on Linux](https://github.com/Syllo/nvtop)

- NVTOP is a task monitor for GPUs and accelerators, akin to htop, supporting various vendors like AMD, Intel, NVIDIA, Apple, Qualcomm Adreno, and Huawei Ascend.
- It necessitates specific GPU libraries, offers interactive features for setup, preference saving, and user-friendly GPU info display, and is compatible with distributions such as Ubuntu, Fedora, Red Hat, CentOS, OpenSUSE, and Arch Linux.
- NVTOP, under the GPLv3 license, can be compiled from source with NVIDIA, AMD, and Intel GPU backing.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39687132)

- The Github thread delves into comparing Linux task monitoring tools for Nvidia, AMD, and Intel GPUs like Nvtop, Nvitop, and others.
- Discussions revolve around GPU utilization accuracy, power consumption's performance indicator, and mention alternative tools btop and asitop.
- Users inquire about Linux GPU support, video decoding, MacOS tool availability, alongside suggestions for AI/ML performance profiling and diverse GPU data reading libraries.

## [Exploring Floating-Point Precision's Impact on Mandelbrot Set Images](https://github.com/ProfJski/FloatCompMandelbrot)

- FloatCompMandelbrot is a program utilizing Boost::Multiprecision and RayLib to showcase how floating-point precision influences Mandelbrot set visuals.
- Users can compare images from various floating-point implementations, unveiling the impact of inaccuracies on Mandelbrot set complexity.
- The tool, designed for research, provides detailed controls for analyzing and understanding how floating-point types affect fractal image representation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39683455)

- The discussion on github.com/profjski delves into the impact of floating-point precision on Mandelbrot set images, exploring techniques like fused-multiply-add and deep zoom rendering.
- Topics cover period detection, posits, quad-precision floating-point arithmetic, and the fusion of math and computer science.
- Challenges in precise calculations for Mandelbrot Set Images due to high precision requirements and the limitations of floating-point arithmetic are outlined, along with the utility of floating-point numbers in troubleshooting and citations to resources on floating-point arithmetic, including an XKCD comic.

## [Beware: Top Bitcoin Wallet App in Apple Store Revealed as Scam](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39685272)

- An individual switched from an Android to an iPhone and unknowingly transferred their bitcoin to a scam wallet app from the Apple App Store.
- Despite being reported as fraudulent, the scam app remained the top search result on the App Store, raising concerns about its ranking over trusted apps like Binance and Coinbase.
- This incident highlights the importance of thoroughly vetting apps before using them, especially for sensitive transactions like cryptocurrency transfers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39685272)

- Concerns are rising on platforms like the Apple App Store and Google Search Ads due to scam apps, fake reviews, and misleading ads, impacting user trust and safety.
- Discussions focus on platform security, user vigilance, and the balance between investing and gambling, along with app store rankings challenges.
- Users and platforms share the responsibility in fighting scams, highlighting the importance of collaboration in ensuring a secure digital environment.

## [Enhancing SaaS Reliability with Deterministic Simulation Testing](https://www.warpstream.com/blog/deterministic-simulation-testing-for-our-entire-saas)

- The PricingCompany blog post emphasizes the significance of deterministic simulation testing in software development, particularly in testing distributed systems like WarpStream using Antithesis.
- Antithesis is effective in bug detection, enhancing software quality, and offering valuable feedback to developers, ensuring the reliability and correctness of critical software.
- The post underscores the features of WarpStream as a Kafka compatible data streaming platform and highlights the advantages of deterministic simulation testing compared to traditional approaches like Jepsen.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39680579)

- Antithesis introduces a deterministic simulation testing tool for their SaaS platform, warpstream.com, enabling efficient testing of distributed systems.
- Developed by the team known for FoundationDB, the tool offers a reliable way to reproduce bugs in concurrent/distributed systems, simplifying issue identification and resolution.
- Users have highlighted the appealing design of the warpstream website, along with minor technical glitches encountered.

## [Concerns rise over Dutch intelligence law](https://berthub.eu/articles/posts/dutch-intelligence-and-security-law/)

- The Dutch Intelligence and Security Law boosts Dutch intelligence agencies' authority to conduct Signals Intelligence (SIGINT) on local internet exchanges, permitting data interception and retention without precise reasoning.
- It provides extensive investigative abilities for monitoring individuals or entities, monitored by both internal and external regulatory entities, and proposes broadening hacking activities and data gathering.
- Concerns arise over privacy rights and potential limitations on personal freedoms due to the expanded warrants even on non-targets.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39684472)

- Concerns have arisen over a new Dutch intelligence and security law, raising worries about government surveillance, privacy breaches, and excessive authority.
- Debate surrounds the necessity of surveillance powers for national security versus their impact on privacy and personal liberties, highlighting the importance of secure communication like end-to-end encryption.
- The discussion includes the potential influence of European courts on elements of the law concerning hacking and interception abilities, emphasizing the need to balance security measures with privacy rights and safeguard democratic values in cybersecurity efforts.

## [Swift Gaming on Playdate: Enhancing C API for Efficiency](https://www.swift.org/blog/byte-sized-swift-tiny-games-playdate/)

- Rauhul Varma showcased creating games for the Playdate handheld system using Swift, including a Conway's Game of Life port, enhancing the Playdate C API for improved usability and memory handling.
- Challenges with deployment, compiler configurations, calling conventions, and memory layout were faced but successfully addressed, advocating for Swift's use in unconventional settings.
- The demonstration highlights the potential of using Swift for game development on unique platforms, showcasing innovative solutions to common obstacles.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39682143)

- Hacker News is debating building small games for the Playdate using Swift, highlighting features and related games on the device.
- Users are intrigued by a new build mode for Embedded Swift with multiple layers and a possible reimplemented Swift runtime.
- The discussion focuses on the Playdate's design, cost, unique features, and the performance of Swift in comparison to other programming languages for game development and embedded systems.

## [Insights from 40 Years of Programming](https://liw.fi/40/)

- Lars Wirzenius reflects on 40 years of programming, discussing productivity, ethics, diversity, and quality in the software industry.
- He challenges programming stereotypes, stresses continuous learning, critical thinking, and the importance of a supportive work environment.
- Key skills highlighted include communication, collaboration, self-awareness, and planning; emphasizing accessibility, diversity, ethics, and maintenance in software development.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39685046)

- Emphasizes the significance of note-taking for clarity and follow-up actions in meetings to address the inefficiencies noted within companies.
- Explores coding challenges, the evolution of programming skills, the value of simplicity, and the influence of diversity and collaboration in software development.
- Discusses the changing dynamics in the software development industry, including team versus solo projects, shifts in game development, and potential career advancement paths, along with considerations like individual career choices, creative programming, and moving into management roles.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Apple Enables Direct App Downloads from Websites in EU" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Apple%20Enables%20Direct%20App%20Downloads%20from%20Websites%20in%20EU&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20March%2013%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
