---
slug: '/2024/03/15'
---

# 2024-03-15

## [Oregon enacts right-to-repair law despite Apple opposition](https://www.techdirt.com/2024/03/13/oregon-passes-right-to-repair-law-apple-lobbied-to-kill/)


### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39702604)

- Oregon has passed a right-to-repair law despite Apple's opposition, setting certification standards for independent repair providers.
- Debate ensues on how this law affects the repair industry, amidst worries about manufacturers controlling certification and analyzing the legal wording.
- The discussions also touch on Apple's stance, security features, e-waste effects, and ethical dilemmas in technology repair policies and lobbying strategies.

## [Scaling Success: Figma's Postgres Sharding Revolution](https://www.figma.com/blog/how-figmas-databases-team-lived-to-tell-the-scale/)

- Figma's databases team successfully implemented horizontal sharding on their Postgres stack for nearly infinite scalability, opting for RDS Postgres over NoSQL databases due to expertise, enhancing scalability and reliability with minimal impact on product logic.
- Sharding keys and hash functions were key in routing data efficiently, with the creation of a new golang service, DBProxy, and sharded views on unsharded databases to streamline operations, addressing challenges like schema updates and cross-shard transactions.
- The team plans to evaluate their current solution and explore alternative approaches for future improvements in the system.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39706968)

- Figma opted for horizontal sharding over migrating to YugabyteDB to scale their tables, citing cost and migration risks as reasons for sticking with RDS.
- The discussion covers various database management strategies, including multi-tenancy, one database per customer, and using Citus for scaling, highlighting the complexities and benefits of each approach.
- Considerations for startups relying on distributed databases and the risks of vendor lock-in, like with Google Cloud Spanner, are also scrutinized in the conversation.

## [SpaceX Delivers Innovative Mission to International Space Station](https://www.spacex.com/launches/mission/?missionId=starship-flight-3)

- The summary explains the SpaceX mission to the International Space Station via the Falcon 9 rocket and Dragon spacecraft, covering liftoff, orbit activation, phasing burns, docking, and pressurization stages.
- SpaceX executes meticulous positioning burns and docking maneuvers for crew ingress after approaching the station.
- Moreover, it highlights SpaceX's additional projects like Starlink and Starship, emphasizing their privacy commitment and collaborations with suppliers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39702568)

- The discussion delves into SpaceX's Starship program, highlighting successful flight tests, re-entry challenges, orbital velocity, and future mission possibilities.
- Mention of fake social media accounts posing as SpaceX, rocket trajectory specifics, and the significance of in-space fuel transfer are also covered.
- Comparisons between various rocket initiatives and the potential for human lunar landings via SpaceX's Starship are explored.

## [FCC Increases Minimum Broadband Speed to 100Mbps](https://www.pcmag.com/news/fcc-officially-raises-minimum-broadband-metric-from-25mbps-to-100mbps)

- The FCC increased the minimum broadband speed from 25Mbps to 100Mbps for downloads and 20Mbps for uploads to improve identifying underserved areas and allocating government funds.
- Future plans include raising the broadband metric to 1,000Mbps for downloads and 500Mbps for uploads.
- Republican Commissioners dissented, suggesting that satellite internet services like SpaceX's Starlink, offering high-speed connectivity, should be recognized in the speed benchmarks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39708957)

- The FCC has raised the minimum broadband speed requirement to 100Mbps, leading to debates about the necessity of higher upload speeds and the evolution of internet technology.
- Users note improvements from providers, emphasizing the importance of symmetric connections and the impact of FCC regulations on broadband speeds.
- Discussions highlight the significance of faster speeds, reliable infrastructure, and equitable access to the internet for all users amidst concerns about potential cost increases and access challenges.

## [CEO of Onerep.com Linked to Multiple People-Search Firms](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2024/03/ceo-of-data-privacy-company-onerep-com-founded-dozens-of-people-search-firms/)

- Onerep.com, a data privacy company, is under scrutiny for operating from Belarus and Cyprus, with its founder launching multiple people-search services.
- Despite denying any connection, Onerep has suspected ties with the people-search site Nuwber.com, raising ethical concerns about selling personal data while charging to remove it.
- Founder Dimitri Shelest, known for past aggressive email marketing and spam affiliate programs, contradicts the company's commitment to online security, prompting investigations by KrebsOnSecurity into data brokers and people-search providers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39709089)

- The conversation covers data privacy, reputation management, and the ethics of political merchandise sales, addressing challenges in removing personal information online and the role of data privacy companies.
- Topics include the use of AI technologies, the influence of tech giants on privacy, and debates on the effectiveness of 'delete me' services and ethical implications of data collection practices.
- It emphasizes the complexities of online privacy maintenance and advocates for tighter regulations in the digital realm.

## [Why Modern Sofas Fall Short: The Rise of Disposable Furniture Culture](https://www.dwell.com/article/dtc-sofa-crisis-32304b9e)

- The article points out the decreasing quality of modern sofas caused by cheaper materials and production methods, fostering a culture of disposable furniture.
- It suggests opting for vintage, high-quality pieces over trendy yet poorly constructed alternatives to combat this trend.
- The shift towards overseas production in the American furniture industry, especially in North Carolina, has led to a decline in local manufacturing jobs, prompting consumers to turn to vintage sofas for better quality and uniqueness.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39706330)

- Users have mixed opinions on the quality and durability of IKEA furniture, with some praising its longevity and others facing issues with materials like particleboard.
- Recommendations to enhance IKEA furniture durability involve opting for solid wood choices and meticulous assembly.
- Preferences for antique or high-end brands are expressed by some users for superior durability, with additional suggestions given for navigating IKEA stores and assembling furniture efficiently.

## [Former Boeing Whistleblower Predicted Death; Family Friend Suspects Foul Play](https://abcnews4.com/news/local/if-anything-happens-its-not-suicide-boeing-whistleblowers-prediction-before-death-south-carolina-abc-news-4-2024)

- Former Boeing whistleblower John Barnett predicted his death before passing away, with his family friend suspecting it was not a suicide.
- Barnett previously raised concerns about Boeing's unsafe practices and feared retaliation for speaking out.
- The case against Boeing continues despite Barnett's death, and Boeing has expressed sadness over the situation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39712618)

- The conversation delves into suspicious deaths, conspiracy theories, and controversies related to whistleblowers, corporations such as Boeing, and prominent figures like Jeffrey Epstein.
- It encompasses concerns about foul play, safety, ethics, skepticism of official stories, and the importance of investigations and safeguarding individuals who expose powerful entities.
- Additionally, the discussions explore societal standards, the concept of evil's ordinariness, and the difficulties whistleblowers encounter while uncovering malpractice.

## [Automate Browser Tasks with Skyvern's LLMs and Computer Vision](https://github.com/Skyvern-AI/skyvern)

- Skyvern is an open-source tool utilizing LLMs and computer vision to automate browser-based workflows with a natural-language API for back-office tasks.
- It tackles workflow scalability challenges by leveraging LLMs to analyze website layouts and adapt without XPaths, currently supporting tasks like procurement and government interactions.
- The tool plans to venture into automating medical EHR data entry and customer research, remaining in the early development phase and seeking user input.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39706004)

- Skyvern is an open-source tool utilizing Large Language Models (LLMs) and computer vision to automate browser-based workflows, offering a natural-language API for back-office tasks like procurement and job applications.
- Discussions revolve around leveraging LLMs for web scraping, automation challenges such as cost and spam prevention, and potential vulnerabilities in CAPTCHA services.
- Future plans include expanding into medical data entry, introducing an LLM router for user aid, and creating a self-serve UI for improved client database accessibility.

## [The Legacy of Švejk: A Humorous Satire on War](https://blogs.loc.gov/international-collections/2018/03/the-good-soldier-vejk/)

- "The Good Soldier Švejk" is a satirical novel by Czech writer Jaroslav Hašek, depicting the antihero Josef Švejk in World War I, mocking bureaucracy, the military, and war.
- The novel has been translated into multiple languages and served as inspiration for various adaptations like plays, films, and comic books.
- Despite Hašek's untimely death before finishing the planned six parts of the story, the enduring legacy of Švejk continues to influence and inspire generations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39702479)

- The discussion delves into classic books such as "The Good Soldier Švejk," "The Little Prince," and "Catch-22," emphasizing humor and societal critiques in their narratives.
- Readers explore evolving perspectives on childhood favorites over time, reflecting on themes and subtext within the stories.
- Insights cover the enduring appeal of Švejk, its humor, illustrations, and examination of the human spirit, alongside discussions on military life, society, Czechoslovakia in WWII, cultural identity, and language differences, as well as the author Jaroslav Hašek's political views and immigrant labor in Russia.

## [Getty Museum and Smithsonian Offer 88k Free Art Images](https://www.openculture.com/2024/03/the-getty-makes-nearly-88000-art-images-free-to-use-however-you-like.html)

- The Getty Museum and Smithsonian Museum provide high-resolution images and art books for public use under Creative Commons Zero license.
- Open Culture offers free educational materials like audio books, online courses, and movies, featuring prominent figures in art, literature, film, and philosophy.
- Open Culture, led by Dan Colman, has been advocating for free educational resources since 2006.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39710454)

- The Getty Museum has opened access to almost 88,000 art images, some falling under the public domain, for public use.
- Conversations revolve around copyright regulations, utilizing high-quality images, and the legalities/practicalities of leveraging museum images on the internet.
- Discussions also include artists licensing their creations to AI models, fears of AI substituting human artists, and the ethical dilemmas surrounding AI in the art sector.

## [Progress Made in Resolving Voyager 1 Communication Issue](https://www.theregister.com/2024/03/14/voyager_1_not_dead/)

- Voyager 1 spacecraft might have resolved its communication problems after receiving a corrective command, decoding a successful memory dump from its Flight Data System.
- Engineers are now working on analyzing the data and comparing it with past transmissions to troubleshoot further.
- Challenges include significant communication delays and finding engineers with the required expertise to address the issue.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39704914)

- Engineers working on legacy projects like the Voyager spacecraft face challenges such as poor documentation, software maintenance issues, and funding constraints.
- The text discusses potential future interactions with Voyager 1 and the idea of sending ships to explore space, alongside coding practices and understanding outdated technologies.
- It also explores the influence of capitalism on software development in the context of legacy projects.

## [NY Disbars Copyright Troll for Unethical Practices](https://abovethelaw.com/2024/03/new-york-disbars-infamous-copyright-troll/)

- Richard Liebowitz, a copyright troll in New York, has been disbarred for unethical behavior, such as lying, stonewalling, and ignoring court orders.
- Copyright trolls like Liebowitz would send intimidating letters to companies, alleging copyright violations and seeking hefty settlements.
- This disbarment stresses the dangers of pursuing predatory copyright practices without the necessary legal readiness, showcasing the consequences of dishonesty and evasion in court settings.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39710455)

- Richard Liebowitz, a copyright lawyer, disbarred in New York for unethical behavior, including dishonesty in copyright cases, sparking a debate on lawyer accountability.
- Concerns arise over misuse of copyright laws and unethical practices like sending threatening letters to companies, raising questions about legal ethics.
- The case underlines the significance of thorough research and ethical conduct in copyright and patent cases, emphasizing the impact of legal decisions in such matters.

## [Students Win Hackathon with Innovative Dining Habits Summary Project](https://jero.zone/posts/meal-plan-wrapped)

- The author and friend Ben emerged victorious in a hackathon at Tufts University with a project that summarizes students' dining habits, attracting hundreds of users through smart promotional strategies.
- They identified weaknesses in the university's meal plan portal, utilizing guest access to collect data despite encountering technical hurdles to log in and retrieve information.
- Overcoming challenges, they received accolades for their project's design, making the experience fulfilling and gratifying for both the author and Ben.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39704304)

- The author reflects on the significance of maturity and empathy in engineering after winning a hackathon, discussing legacy systems, security failures, and balancing fresh ideas with stability in the industry.
- Topics like code refactoring, updating outdated practices, ethical hacking, and lax security in university systems are also covered in the conversation.
- The post explores the benefits and drawbacks of hackathons versus traditional research grants, recounting experiences with teams presenting prototypes, with some users finding the challenges tiring despite the fun and innovation.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Oregon enacts right-to-repair law despite Apple opposition" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Oregon%20enacts%20right-to-repair%20law%20despite%20Apple%20opposition&subheading=Friday%2C%20March%2015%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
