---
slug: '/2024/03/17'
---

# 2024-03-17

## [Optimizing Web Performance for All Devices](https://danluu.com/slow-device/)

- Web bloat impacts users with slow connections as bandwidth outpaces CPU performance, causing usability issues on low-end devices.
- The article underscores the need to prioritize accessibility and usability on all platforms to address disparities in performance between low-end and high-end devices.
- Optimizing websites for improved performance across all devices is crucial for enhancing user experience and driving revenue growth.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39729057)

- Web bloat negatively affects user experience, especially for those with slow devices or internet connections, sparking a discussion on optimizing website performance and prioritizing efficiency over unnecessary tracking.
- The conversation includes the environmental impact of technology, challenges for software engineers, and business priorities impacting software development, highlighting user frustrations with modern websites and the importance of optimization in web development.
- Users' experiences with slow devices underscore the need for performance improvements and optimization in web development, emphasizing the significance of addressing these issues.

## [Hackintosh Scene Decline Amid Apple's Driver Support Removal](https://aplus.rs/2024/hackintosh-almost-dead/)

- The Hackintosh scene is dwindling due to Apple discontinuing driver support for older WiFi/Bt cards, as explained in the article.
- The author shares their struggles and instabilities encountered while constructing and upkeeping Hackintosh systems, leading to the conclusion of its decreasing viability.
- Despite the difficulties, the article mentions the positive elements of the Hackintosh journey and hints at potential alternatives like newer Apple devices.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39728146)

- The article and discussions emphasize the waning interest in Hackintosh due to users having limited time for technology tinkering.
- There is a debate between open-source software and proprietary technologies, with users expressing frustration towards the latter.
- The conversations explore the advantages and difficulties of experimenting with various operating systems like Linux and Windows, reflecting a shift in interests and priorities with age, emphasizing the importance of personal preferences and objectives in choosing an operating system.

## [Cloudflare Suffers 22% Domain Loss in Freenom .tk Shutdown](https://www.netcraft.com/blog/cloudflare-loses-22-of-its-domains-in-freenom-tk-shutdown/)

- Cloudflare faced a significant 22% loss of domains on March 15, 2024, due to the closure of Freenom's top-level domains (.tk, .cf, .gq), causing a 98.7% decrease in resolvable domains.
- Freenom's departure from the domain business was influenced by a lawsuit and reduced abuse complaints, impacting Cloudflare's domain hosting with a 22% reduction in total domains.
- The shutdown of Freenom TLDs resulted in a decrease in cybercrime, notably reducing malicious URLs linked to the affected domains.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39725303)

- Cloudflare has experienced a 22% decrease in its domains following the closure of Freenom .tk domains, evoking nostalgia among users who previously utilized these free domains.
- Debates are ongoing regarding website security, content moderation, anonymity, and the responsibility of infrastructure companies like Cloudflare in monitoring potentially illegal or objectionable content.
- Discussions encompass the history of free domain hosting services, the influence of top-level domains (TLDs) on internet infrastructure, alternative domain options, and the implications for students and budding developers.

## [The Importance of Frame Pointers in Linux Kernel Profiling](https://www.brendangregg.com/blog/2024-03-17/the-return-of-the-frame-pointers.html)

- Brendan Gregg's blog delves into performance analysis tools such as BPF and eBPF, challenges with frame pointers in libc, enhancements in Fedora and Ubuntu releases, and continuous profilers' advantages.
- The text debates the significance of eliminating frame pointers for performance, difficulties in enabling them universally, and their relevance in enterprise environments, proposing frame pointers as the default choice in corporate operating systems.
- It explores alternative stack traversal methods like eBPF, ORC, SFrames, and Shadow Stacks in Linux kernel profiling, advocating for a review of the decision to exclude frame pointers made 18 years ago.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39731824)

- The author emphasizes the significance of frame pointers for debugging and performance optimization in Linux systems, highlighting the struggle to retain them in Fedora.
- A comparison of diverse methods for stack unwinding is presented, alongside discussions on stack walking and profiling tools to ensure efficient software and user accessibility.
- The debate addresses the equilibrium between debuggability, telemetry, and enhancing performance in computing systems.

## [Flash Attention CUDA Implementation for Beginners](https://github.com/tspeterkim/flash-attention-minimal)

- A simplified version of Flash Attention using CUDA and PyTorch is created to be beginner-friendly, with a faster forward pass than manual attention, especially on a T4 GPU.
- However, it currently lacks a backward pass and exhibits slower matrix multiplications for extended sequences, though upcoming updates aim to address these limitations.
- Future enhancements entail implementing a backward pass functionality and optimizing matrix operations further.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39726781)

- The GitHub discussion focuses on integrating Flash Attention in CUDA, with users suggesting Triton for creating custom kernels due to its block-level programming and automatic optimization features.
- Users also highlight challenges with backward pass implementation and utilizing CUDA synchronization functions.
- Flash Attention is briefly explained as a memory-efficient exact attention technique in machine learning.

## [Industry-Ready GnuCOBOL: 20 Years of Development](https://thenewstack.io/20-years-in-the-making-gnucobol-is-ready-for-industry/)

- GnuCOBOL, an open-source programming language, is well-developed and ready for industry use, competing with proprietary options in various settings.
- Originally named OpenCOBOL in 2002, GnuCOBOL is now cross-platform, fast, reliable, and widely utilized in commercial applications, especially in the banking sector.
- GnuCOBOL is user-friendly for Unix programmers, can be compiled into C code, and adheres well to COBOL standards. It will be highlighted in the upcoming Google Summer of Code program, attracting a new cohort of developers to engage with this language.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39728519)

- GnuCOBOL, a modernized version of the COBOL programming language, is now available for industry use after two decades of development.
- Despite misconceptions, COBOL remains actively utilized in various industries, especially in legacy applications on platforms such as IBM mainframes, OS2200, and VMS.
- Although hiring COBOL programmers can be challenging, opportunities exist for those skilled in the language, with businesses continuing to leverage COBOL for backend, database work, especially in finance, while aiming to transition to more popular languages.

## [Enhance Android Performance Safely with Universal Debloater GUI](https://github.com/0x192/universal-android-debloater)

- The Universal Android Debloater GUI is a tool designed to enhance privacy, battery life, and security on Android devices by eliminating unnecessary system apps.
- Users should use it cautiously to avoid potential bootloop issues if critical packages are deleted, as the software is still in its early stages of development.
- It provides options like uninstalling/disabling system packages, supporting multiple devices, and offering debloat lists for different manufacturers and mobile carriers, with recommendations to backup data, review FAQs, and keep abreast of OEM updates for smooth operation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39730962)

- Github users are deliberating bloatware on non-rooted Android devices, specifically Samsung phones, highlighting privacy worries with default apps and discussing building a clean Android OS from source.
- Discussions cover experiences with different brands, software setups, debloating techniques, caution against disabling apps, and compare iPhones with Androids, including freezing screens, keyboard glitches, and debugging challenges.
- The debate also touches on the risks of rooting devices, emphasizing the necessity of a banking app for authentication.

## [IBM 360 Project in UK Seeks New Home](https://www.ibm360.co.uk/)

- The creators of the 360 project, Adam and Chris, are looking for a new home for the machines that have been idle for four years due to their busy personal and professional schedules.
- Their inability to advance the project has impacted their commitment to promoting ecom's services through PR visibility.
- Adam and Chris are contemplating parting ways with the systems due to their prolonged inactivity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39728994)

- The HN forum is debating the availability and compatibility of the IBM 360 Model 20, sparking interest in acquiring and restoring these historical systems.
- Some users are hopeful that the Computer History Museum will purchase them, sharing resources and discussing potential uses in music production and exploring the software they once ran.

## [Reassessing the Role of Testing](https://registerspill.thorstenball.com/p/a-few-words-on-testing)

- Thorsten Ball, reflecting on his testing experience in software development, questions the effectiveness and significance of extensive testing, pointing out instances of successful software with minimal testing.
- Ball doubts the correlation between software quality and the extent of testing, advocating for minimal testing to prioritize functional code over rigorous testing.
- He suggests shifting the focus from extensive testing to ensuring that the code functions correctly to enhance software quality.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39731195)

- Testing in software development is crucial for ensuring code correctness and functionality.
- The debate covers areas like the misuse of testing, the effectiveness of type systems versus tests, and challenges in rebuilding codebases.
- Prioritizing technical rigor and adapting testing strategies based on the program context are crucial for maintaining software quality and preventing errors.

## [Bullshitters More Prone to Fake News: Study](https://uwaterloo.ca/news/media/research-shows-people-who-bs-are-more-likely-fall-bs)

- Research from the University of Waterloo indicates that individuals who frequently engage in "persuasive bullshitting" are prone to being deceived by fake news and misinformation.
- The study reveals that these individuals struggle to differentiate between fact and fiction, making them more vulnerable to believing inaccurate but grand-sounding information.
- This research highlights the connection between persuasive bullshitting and the challenge individuals face in discerning the truth, emphasizing the significance of combating misinformation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39727529)

- The discussion focuses on the connection between engaging in deceptive practices and being deceived, especially among salespeople, highlighting issues related to morality in sales and the difficulty of identifying deceptive strategies.
- It explores the psychology of 'bullshitting,' emphasizes the significance of critical thinking, and warns about the dangers of establishing unattainable objectives in personal and professional settings.
- The conversation also analyzes the widespread presence of BS across different scenarios and how it influences decision-making processes, aiming to enhance comprehension and management of deception in interpersonal, commercial, and academic realms.

## [Efficient URL Parsing in Python: Introducing can_ada vs. urllib](https://tkte.ch/articles/2024/03/15/parsing-urls-in-python.html)

- The article addresses the parsing challenges of URLs in Python, emphasizing the differences between the urllib module and the WHATWG URL spec.
- Introduces the Ada project as a high-speed URL parsing library that follows the WHATWG spec, offering Python bindings.
- The can_ada Python binding is presented as a quicker option than ada-python bindings, showcasing superior efficiency in URL parsing compared to urllib.parse.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39727458)

- The conversation revolves around parsing URLs in Python, stressing the necessity of an improved URL parser in Scrapy for efficiency and alignment with WHATWG standards.
- The Ada URL parser, inspired by Ada Lovelace, is introduced, sparking discussions on the security risks of swapping the default parser with a third-party option.
- Challenges of URL parsing, such as discrepancies in standards and security issues in common libraries, are outlined, offering alternative solutions and factors to ensure precise parsing.

## [Y Combinator's Seibel Steps Down to Mentor](https://www.wired.com/story/plaintext-y-combinator-michael-seibel-startup-whisperer/)

- Y Combinator managing director Michael Seibel steps down to mentor startup founders directly amid the organization's restructuring.
- Former CEO now focuses on mentoring a quarter of each batch, emphasizing founder mentoring and smaller group sizes at YC.
- The article discusses YC's evolution, intense competition for entry, Seibel's successful career, and various tech topics but includes a WIRED magazine subscription offer.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39725678)

- The discussion delves into Y Combinator's role, leadership changes, conflicts, and founder exploitation in startups, emphasizing control, financial incentives, and a technology-focused hacker community.
- It addresses the importance of diversity in decision-making, generational leadership gaps, and worries about AI-generated comments dominating the platform.
- Furthermore, there is an exploration of the significance of business news, content preferences, and limited awareness of Y Combinator as an organization.

## [The Challenges of Power Consumption in Advanced Chip Design](https://semiengineering.com/the-rising-price-of-power-in-chips/)

- The article highlights challenges in power consumption and thermal management in chip design, focusing on advanced technologies such as 3D-ICs and chiplets.
- It emphasizes the impacts of power issues on performance, reliability, and cost in the semiconductor industry, underlining the significance of innovative solutions like backside power delivery and new transistor structures.
- Experts discuss EDA, MEMS, AI, security, and advanced packaging, stressing the importance of collaboration, standards, and technological advancements to tackle these challenges efficiently.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39724966)

- The debate centers on the increasing power usage in chips, with a spotlight on ARM chips versus x86 chips and their efficiency.
- Reversible computing is considered a possible solution to reduce power consumption, particularly concerning quantum computers.
- The conversation also addresses the difficulties of balancing performance with power efficiency when designing chips.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Optimizing Web Performance for All Devices" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Optimizing%20Web%20Performance%20for%20All%20Devices&subheading=Sunday%2C%20March%2017%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
