---
slug: '/2024/03/20'
---

# 2024-03-20

## [How to Launch a Tech Startup at a Young Age](https://paulgraham.com/google.html)

- Starting a startup at a young age is vital, emphasizing the development of tech skills through personal projects and collaborating with cofounders.
- Success is linked to working on exciting projects, solving daily issues with tech, and being surrounded by intelligent and dedicated peers, exemplified by giants like Facebook, Apple, and Google.
- To create a prosperous startup, excel in technology, engage in personal projects, and attend reputable universities are crucial milestones to follow.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39756865)

- The article underlines the significance of pursuing passions over just chasing financial success or predicting lucrative technologies to learn.
- It stresses the value of personal projects, skill acquisition, and networking for future prospects in the tech industry.
- Discussions cover insights on startup guidance, age's impact on entrepreneurship, challenges in the tech sector, and the transformation of leading companies like Google, emphasizing soft skills, financial stability, networking, and ethical aspects in business.

## [LEGO Set Price Per Part Trends Revealed](https://brickinsights.com/statistics/ppp)

- Brick Insights has reevaluated LEGO set Price Per Part (PPP) data by factoring in inflation and Duplo sets across 150 set categories, with PPP values ranging from $2.47 to $0.07, sourced from Brickset for MOCing purposes.
- The analysis reveals different LEGO themes exhibit varied average PPP values, enabling comparisons within similar categories, with the site now featuring inflation-adjusted prices for more relevant price per part and price per minifigure assessments.
- Brick Insights, founded by LEGO fans in Malmö, Sweden, offers insights into LEGO pricing trends and manages platforms like Swooshable and Is It Swooshable for LEGO building enthusiasts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39759693)

- The discussion delves into various aspects of LEGO sets, such as pricing, quality control, sustainability, licensing, specialized parts, and creativity, showcasing the richness of topics surrounding the brand.
- Participants exchange experiences and voice worries about plastic's environmental impact in toys, alongside conversing about data visualization obstacles and examining LEGO's pricing trends and design decisions.
- The conversation underscores the intricacy and subtleties of the LEGO brand and its offerings, providing a comprehensive understanding of the diverse discussions within the LEGO community.

## [Godspeed: Ultra-Fast Keyboard-Oriented Todo App for Mac](https://godspeedapp.com/)

- Godspeed is a todo manager emphasizing speed and full keyboard control, boasting shared lists, labels, smart lists, boolean search operators, and cloud synchronization.
- Catering to hotkey enthusiasts, it offers a "hardcore mode" turning off the mouse entirely.
- Users can test the app through a 2-week trial before choosing between subscription or one-time purchase.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39756325)

- The new keyboard-oriented todo app Godspeed for Mac is gaining attention for its shared lists, labels, and cloud sync features, sparking comparisons with other task management tools like Things and Todoist.
- Users are engaging in discussions about pricing, features, and development pace, while also providing feedback on app functionality, pricing, and potential enhancements.
- The development team plans to introduce support for importing tasks from Things and expanding to Windows, Android, and web platforms, emphasizing the importance of organization, task management, and collaboration options in productivity tools.

## [Introducing jnv: Interactive JSON Viewer with jq Filter Editing](https://github.com/ynqa/jnv)

- jnv is a tool for navigating JSON files, providing an interactive JSON viewer and jq filter editor without the need to install jq, thanks to Rust bindings.
- Users can install jnv via Homebrew or Cargo and benefit from features like syntax highlighting, auto-completion, and key bindings for easier navigation.
- The tool supports reading JSON from stdin, files, or URLs, allowing customization of settings like edit mode, indentation, hint display, and suggestion list length, while offering examples and options for JSON visualization control.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39759325)

- The post covers "jnv," an interactive JSON filter leveraging jq, where users discuss its performance and suggest alternatives like fx, jiq, and ijq.
- Users share feedback, contribute ideas for improvement, and mention using plugins such as fzf for interactive querying and filtering JSON data.
- The discussion centers on various tools and plugins for interactive querying and filtering JSON data, showcasing a community interest in enhancing such capabilities.

## [Study: Fat Buildup in Brain Cells Linked to Alzheimer's Risk](https://medicalxpress.com/news/2024-03-root-alzheimer-fat-buildup-brain.html)

- A study in Nature proposes that fat accumulation in brain cells, not beta-amyloid or tau proteins, could be the primary driver of Alzheimer's disease.
- Researchers suggest that the APOE4 gene variant, responsible for transporting more fat into brain cells, might elevate the risk of Alzheimer's.
- The findings imply that amyloid build-up could initiate fat accumulation in brain cells, potentially contributing to Alzheimer's progression.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39760333)

- Research indicates that fat accumulation in brain cells could be the primary trigger for Alzheimer's disease, leading to a focus on developing targeted drugs.
- Debates cover genetic influences, dietary fat impact, and misinformation on health beliefs in Alzheimer's discussions.
- Topics also include the link between fat buildup and Alzheimer's, treatments like GLP1 analogs, and the significance of genetic testing and healthy lifestyle choices for disease management.

## [Causal 2.0: Streamlined Financial Planning for Startups](https://causal.app)

- Causal 2.0 is a contemporary financial planning tool designed for startups and SMBs, enabling users to build financial models, utilize live data from different systems, and prepare for various scenarios.
- The platform provides templates for reporting, forecasting, hiring plans, budgeting, and consolidation, allowing users to connect their data sources and personalize their models effortlessly.
- Endorsed by many customers, Causal offers integrations with well-known accounting, CRM, and data warehouse systems to enhance users' financial planning experience.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39755858)

- Causal 2.0 is a financial planning tool for startups, known for its multidimensional spreadsheet capabilities, launched in 2019.
- Users value its efficiency in handling dimensional data, using it for financial planning and even replacing their BI tools, with praise for its user-friendly modeling of complex financial data.
- The software focuses on causal inference, offering unique features like live data integrations and dashboards, while the creators plan to introduce more affordable plans and enterprise features in the future.

## [Intel 8080 Emulator with CP/M Support Wins 19th IOCCC Best of Show](https://nanochess.org/emulator.html)

- @nanochess's project won the 19th IOCCC Best of Show for creating an Intel 8080 emulator with CP/M support, featuring over 200 experimentally patterned 8080 instructions.
- The project includes instructions and source code for the emulator, along with details on running Wordstar, Zilog Z80 processor's impact on microcomputers, and updates on development.
- The website, updated for 2024, offers a workaround for x86-64 machines and provides links to source code for additional software and programming games for Atari 2600.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39758667)

- The post explores developing an Intel 8080 emulator for the 19th International Obfuscated C Code Contest (IOCCC), highlighting the difficulties and improvements in emulating 8080 code on early personal computers.
- It touches on the revival of the IOCCC, previous champions such as 8086tiny, and adjustments to competition regulations, along with mentions of code golf contests and the Toledo family's coding successes.
- Discussions delve into topics like programming efficacy and resolving issues in emulation processes.

## [Palo Alto's Inflection Pivots to Custom AI Models on Cloud](https://inflection.ai/the-new-inflection)

- Inflection, the AI company in Palo Alto, is transitioning focus to their AI studio business, providing tailor-made generative AI models for businesses.
- Two co-founders are leaving to initiate Microsoft AI, and a new CEO, Sean White, is taking over, while ensuring continuity in AI services with a steadfast commitment to user privacy.
- The company plans to deploy its technology on Microsoft Azure and other cloud platforms, inviting users to register for early access to the upcoming API.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39757368)

- The conversation addresses critiques of Inflection's PR strategies, the impact of personal AI, and the ethical concerns related to AI technology.
- Controversies involving Mustafa Suleyman at Google, Microsoft's recent acquisitions, and advancements in chatbots are also part of the debate.
- Discussions further cover challenges, developments, and societal implications of AI, along with debates on capitalism, globalization, and the significance of internships in hiring.

## [Alan Kay's Insights on LLMs and Trust in Tech](https://www.quora.com/What-does-Alan-Kay-think-about-programming-and-teaching-programming-with-copilots-and-LLMs-of-today)

- The text examines the shift towards trust and security in programming and operating systems, pointing out flaws in current education approaches and promoting more secure systems.
- It emphasizes the significance of trust in computing and the universities' role in technological advancements while mentioning the project management tool monday.com and Kurt Vonnegut's views on personal development through art.
- Additionally, it covers the hurdles adults face when acquiring new skills, the value of comprehending Alan Kay's viewpoints, and common internet errors to steer clear of.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39758391)

- Alan Kay emphasizes the shift from superstition to scientific methods for societal progress, discussing the correlation versus superstition, empiricism, the role of AI, and utilizing message passing and late binding in software development.
- The conversation dives into the reliability and consequences of Large Language Models (LLMs), raising issues of trust, ethics, and misinformation, urging careful reflection on AI technology's impact.
- It calls for a critical examination of AI technology implications, emphasizing the verification of reasoning and comprehension in tech advancement.

## [Potential Title: "macOS 14.4 Update Causes Issues with USB Hubs, Printers, and Java"](https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2024/03/usb-hubs-printers-java-and-more-seemingly-broken-by-macos-14-4-update/)

- The macOS 14.4 update is causing compatibility problems with external devices such as USB hubs, printers, and software like Java, possibly due to security patches implemented by Apple.
- Users are facing issues, especially with Apple Silicon Macs, following the update, while some have not encountered any abnormal behavior.
- It is advisable to hold off on updating until Apple issues the necessary fixes to address these compatibility issues.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39755358)

- macOS 14.4 update is causing issues with USB hubs, printers, Java, and other devices, while macOS 12.x Monterey is facing complications with file permissions.
- Users express frustration over printer driver compatibility and support, debating responsibility between companies and Apple, along with discussions on the longevity of printers and challenges with old games and software compatibility.
- Apple updates are under scrutiny for reliability, performance, and hardware compatibility, alongside a mix of opinions on Arch Linux reliability, Apple software quality, Windows updates, zsh files, application glitches, and connectivity problems.

## [Brain Fog in Long Covid Linked to Damaged Brain Blood Vessels](https://www.sciencenews.org/article/long-covid-brain-fog-blood-brain-barrier-damage)

- Scientists found a biological explanation for brain fog in long COVID patients, attributing it to leaky blood vessels in the brain revealed through MRI scans.
- Damaged blood vessels in the brains of these patients enable foreign substances to infiltrate brain tissue, causing cognitive impairment.
- This breakthrough may lead to the development of treatments to prevent or undo the deterioration of the blood-brain barrier in long COVID patients with brain fog.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39762776)

- The discussion delves into the long-term effects of Covid-19, such as "Long Covid" brain fog and autoimmune-related health issues,
- There is ongoing research on the potential connections between gut health, autoimmune disorders, and cognitive symptoms post-Covid, debating the uniqueness of Long Covid compared to other post-viral syndromes,
- Efforts are made to understand the impact of Covid-19 on the brain, distinguish between misattributed symptoms and genuine virus-related damage, with a commenter suggesting Covid-19 is endemic and the pandemic is subsiding.

## ["R U Human?": A Virtual Reality Film on Human Connection](https://r-u-human.com/)

- "R U Human?" is a short film delving into human connection and empathy in a virtual reality environment.
- The film prompts viewers to contemplate the essence of humanity through the interactions of three characters.
- It challenges individuals to reflect on the true meaning of being human.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39755084)

- The discussion delves into distinguishing between humans and bots online through captchas, sweatshop labor ethics, AI limitations, and challenges in customer service interactions.
- Participants explore strategies for authenticity verification, concerns around sweatshop labor harm, and nuances of human vs. AI responses in different scenarios.
- The conversation also touches on the philosophical implications of AI, frustrations with captchas to prove humanity, and complexities of human vs. AI interactions.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="How to Launch a Tech Startup at a Young Age" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=How%20to%20Launch%20a%20Tech%20Startup%20at%20a%20Young%20Age&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20March%2020%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
