---
slug: '/2024/03/21'
---

# 2024-03-21

## [Exploring Shattered Pixel Dungeon: A Traditional Roguelike](https://github.com/00-Evan/shattered-pixel-dungeon)

- Shattered Pixel Dungeon is a traditional roguelike dungeon crawler based on Pixel Dungeon, open-source and offering randomized levels, enemies, and numerous collectible items.
- Available on Android, iOS, and Desktop platforms, with official releases on the game's website, complemented by a blog at ShatteredPixel.com and a translation project on Transifex.
- The provided code is for personal usage only, with the project welcoming issue reports, and guides for compiling the game on various platforms can be found in the /docs folder.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39773641)

- The discussion focuses on the popular game Shattered Pixel Dungeon, known for its engaging gameplay and features, with users praising its addictiveness and open-source nature.
- Users caution against certain games lacking testing or depth, sharing experiences with other titles like Nethack and Cogmind.
- The game boasts a dedicated community, allows customization through mods, and can be accessed across different platforms, with some users opting for F-Droid for enhanced security.

## [Unfair Discontinuities in Policies and Practices](https://danluu.com/discontinuities/)

- The article examines sharp policy and practice disparities across various areas like health insurance, tax breaks, college admissions, grant applications, youth sports, and procurement auctions, emphasizing how these disparities can result in unfair outcomes.
- It underscores the significance of supervising and governing systems to uphold fairness and precision in decision-making processes.
- Additionally, it delves into the influence of prosecutorial discretion on drug sentencing and challenges suggested reasons for disparities in sentencing results.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39768860)

- The discussion delves into various topics such as welfare and tuition policies, Universal Basic Income feasibility, government programs' impact on individuals, benefit eligibility complexities, and accurate real estate appraisals.
- It also covers tax thresholds, strategies for health insurance subsidy eligibility, income thresholds in different industries, and concerns about election fraud in Russia.
- The debates include the effectiveness of government programs, tax legislation, and inheritance tax implications.

## [The Innovators Behind Transformer Technology: Former Google Employees Revolutionize AI](https://www.wired.com/story/eight-google-employees-invented-modern-ai-transformers-paper/)

- Former Google employees Noam Shazeer, Jakob Uszkoreit, and Lukasz Kaiser pioneered transformer technology, transforming the AI field with tools like ChatGPT and Dall-E.
- Their work has influenced the industry, inspiring advancements at companies like Google and OpenAI, sparking discussions on Google's innovation approach.
- The ex-Googlers recognize Google's role in nurturing an innovative ecosystem that enabled their groundbreaking research and subsequent entrepreneurial endeavors in AI.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39766170)

- Google employees are behind the creation and influence of transformers in AI, sparking debates on their revolutionary impact on NLP.
- The role of scaling compute power in AI progress, Google's history, challenges, and strategies for adapting to new trends, along with missed innovation opportunities, are also covered.
- The article delves into concerns surrounding AI ethics, ad revenue, the definition and historical context of AI, the importance of transformers, and Google's approach to transformer technology.

## [Open Source Rive Renderer Enhances Real-time Vector Graphics](https://rive.app/blog/rive-renderer-now-open-source-and-available-on-all-platforms)

- The text offers CSS code snippets for integrating the Amplitude SDK, Twitter ads script, Rive Renderer, and Google Analytics on a webpage.
- It includes functions to format Intl objects and patch Date, Number, and NumberFormat objects, enhancing the website's functionality.
- There are font-face declarations for the Inter font family with different styles and weights, along with CSS styles for text components and links within a Framer design setting.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39766893)

- Rive Renderer is an open-source tool catering to UI/UX designers, aiding in creating dynamic UI components for games and products by seamlessly integrating with Unreal Engine.
- The tool provides a state machine feature for intricate UI construction and text rendering libraries, focusing on continual enhancements in rendering performance and quality, potentially integrating with Bevy and Godot.
- Discussions revolve around Rive's rendering capabilities, GPU-friendly stroke expansion, and concerns regarding the sustainability of its business model, along with exploring various file formats for animations and its potential as an alternative to Lottie, including working with OpenGL ES 3.0.

## [Enhanced Reading Experience with Google Scholar PDF Reader](https://scholar.googleblog.com/2024/03/supercharge-your-pdf-reading-follow.html)

- Google Scholar has introduced a PDF Reader to improve the reading experience of research papers in PDF format, providing seamless navigation through references, outlines, figures, and tables.
- The PDF Reader enables users to copy citations, save them to a reference manager, and search for related articles, offering a Chrome browser extension with customizable display themes.
- This release aims to streamline the research paper reading process and enhance accessibility for users looking to delve deeper into scholarly articles.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39768438)

- Users are disappointed with the discontinuation of the new Google Scholar PDF Reader, prompting discussions on alternative research paper reading tools like Zotero and Knowledge Garden.
- Various topics discussed include data security, organization methods, AI-assisted reading, and limitations of Linux support, emphasizing preferences for features like note-taking and organization capabilities in PDF readers and management tools for academic papers.
- Recommendations are made for different apps and tools to read and manage PDFs on various devices and operating systems, reflecting the need for innovative tools in academia to enhance research communication.

## [Paris Invests Billions to Promote Economic Diversity Through Public Housing](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/17/realestate/paris-france-housing-costs.html)

- Paris is pouring billions of euros into public housing to foster economic diversity and combat economic segregation, aiming to have 30% low-income and 10% middle-income residents in public housing by 2035.
- Initiatives involve building new developments strategically, acquiring properties ahead of time, and shaping the retail landscape, with thousands of affordable apartments provided to needy families.
- While facing local opposition, Paris' efforts are crucial for fostering inclusivity and sustainability within the city.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39765692)

- The discussion delves into urban development challenges in cities like Paris, focusing on increasing population density, transportation infrastructure improvement, reducing car dependence, and addressing social segregation.
- Key topics include noise pollution, urban congestion, housing developments, income segregation, and the societal impact of government policies.
- The main themes emphasize the importance of balancing housing options, infrastructure enhancement, and sustainable transportation to nurture dynamic urban spaces while mitigating social disparities.

## [Intel Awarded $8.5B Grants for Chip Plant Expansion](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/20/us/politics/chips-act-grant-intel.html)

- President Biden announced $8.5 billion in grants to Intel for building and expanding chip plants in Arizona, Ohio, New Mexico, and Oregon to enhance semiconductor production and decrease dependence on foreign nations.
- The investment, the most extensive under the CHIPS Act, will lead to numerous job opportunities and enable Intel to manufacture cutting-edge chips for sectors like AI and defense.
- Additionally, the federal government plans to offer up to $11 billion in loans and tax credits to aid Intel's expansion efforts, aligning with Biden's strategy to fortify the US semiconductor industry and boost local chip manufacturing.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39765718)

- The discussion delves into various semiconductor industry concerns, like labor shortages, compensation, supply chain security, and automation impact.
- Specific focus on Intel's struggles, TSMC's achievements, and the importance of the US enhancing its chip production domestically.
- Emphasis on skilled workforce necessity, training initiatives, and reshoring strategies within the semiconductor sector, alongside debates on Elon Musk's influence, socialist ideas, and entry barriers for newcomers.

## [Understanding Parrots Through Tablet Games](https://news.northeastern.edu/2024/03/20/parrots-playing-tablet-games/)

- Northeastern University researchers created a custom tablet game for parrots to investigate their touchscreen interactions, revealing their preference for using their tongues during gameplay.
- A "multi-tap threshold" was introduced to enhance usability based on the study's findings, indicating the potential of touchscreens to enhance the lives of parrots and provide valuable insights for pet tech.
- The research implies that tailored touchscreen technology could benefit not only parrots but also other animals, offering promising prospects for the future of pet tech.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39768604)

- The discussion delves into the intelligence and behavior of parrots, along with the ethical concerns surrounding animal exploitation for different purposes.
- It questions human perceptions of animal intelligence, emphasizing the complexities of inter-species communication and comprehension.
- The conversation also covers the potential use of technology, like tablets, for studying and engaging with parrots, including challenges of owning them as pets and optimizing platforms like YouTube for their benefit.

## [French Mathematician Michel Talagrand Awarded Abel Prize for Pioneering Work in Probability Theory](https://www.quantamagazine.org/michel-talagrand-wins-abel-prize-for-work-wrangling-randomness-20240320/)

- French mathematician Michel Talagrand received the prestigious Abel Prize for his pivotal contributions in probability theory, particularly in creating tools to study and forecast random processes.
- His research emphasizes analyzing extreme results and measure concentration in random processes, culminating in versatile techniques utilized across mathematics and scientific disciplines.
- Talagrand's profound work, including concentration inequalities, is highly revered in the mathematical community for serving as fundamental pillars in the discipline.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39764954)

- Mathematician Michel Talagrand was awarded the Abel Prize for bridging geometric concepts with probabilistic theory, impacting diverse fields.
- The discussion highlights gender bias and obstacles for women in Wikipedia articles, the platform's external effects, and the influence of technological progress.
- It explores the intricate link between humans and technology, innovation challenges for NGOs, AI, and Wikipedia's role, as well as utilizing Library Genesis for book access.

## [GPT Store Faces Spam and Copyright Challenges](https://techcrunch.com/2024/03/20/openais-chatbot-store-is-filling-up-with-spam/)

- OpenAI's GPT Store, a platform for customized chatbots powered by generative AI models, is grappling with spam and copyright infringement issues.
- The marketplace features bots providing various services, from art creation to academic dishonesty, prompting concerns about moderation effectiveness regarding impersonation, copyright, and academic integrity policies.
- The store's rapid expansion has resulted in a lack of quality control, raising worries about GPT monetization and legal repercussions, as the focus shifts to handling spam, legal adherence, and user involvement.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39769708)

- OpenAI's chatbot store is grappling with spam problems affecting developers' visibility and competitiveness, although some developers have managed to succeed despite this issue.
- The increase in auto-generated content following the API launch has raised worries about content quality and its impact on Google search rankings, sparking discussions on automation tools, ethics, and AI technology monetization.
- Concerns surrounding AI use in job-related areas like applications, cover letters, interviews, and hiring procedures, as well as its implications on content creation, spam detection, and information consumption, are being debated.

## [Secure Local Development with lcl.host's Easy HTTPS Setup](https://anchor.dev/blog/introducing-lcl-host)

- lcl.host is a free devtool catering to web developers, facilitating the effortless setup of HTTPS locally for a secure development environment mirroring production settings.
- The tool streamlines SSL certificate acquisition and renewal, removes the necessity for manual trust store updates, and resolves common issues like mixed asset problems and CORS errors.
- lcl.host employs an Anchor managed private CA, lcl.host DNS zone, and Anchor CLI, promising simplicity in HTTPS configuration without mandating specialized knowledge in certificate encryption.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39765630)

- Discussion focuses on tools like lcl.host, Localias, and Caddy Docker Proxy Module for implementing HTTPS in local development environments.
- Challenges discussed include version checks, certificate problems, browser compatibility, and the importance of utilizing HTTPS for API testing and bug identification.
- Mention of Anchor.dev's support for the Caddy project, SSL certificate generation methods, and the advantages of Let's Encrypt certificates with personalized domains is highlighted.

## [GritQL: Revolutionizing Source Code Transformation with Rust CLI](https://github.com/getgrit/gritql)

- GritQL is an open-source Rust CLI created for searching and transforming source code, aiming to combine the simplicity of tools like grep with the sophistication of codemod programs.
- It allows for easy codebase exploration, adding complexity with side conditions, and swift iterations on significant code migrations, catering to maximum performance in Rust.
- The project is seeking collaboration with the open-source community, having been utilized in numerous repositories for intricate migrations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39770908)

- GritQL is a Rust CLI tool for searching and transforming source code, aiding in complex migrations and refactors, with features like exploratory analysis, incremental complexity, and reuse of named patterns.
- Positioned between grep and codemod tools, GritQL offers performance and flexibility for large codebases, used across numerous repositories, and encourages community collaboration as an open-source tool.
- While similar to ast-grep, GritQL stands out for its unique functionalities, like not requiring syntactically correct output code and lacking support for loading custom grammars dynamically, focusing on simplifying transpilation processes.

## [Bug Fix: Btrfs Filesystem Corruption Solved](https://tavianator.com/2024/btrfs_bug.html)

- Tavian Barnes faced a Linux kernel filesystem corruption error linked to Btrfs due to concurrent threads accessing the same extent buffer.
- By employing git bisect for debugging and replicating the problem in a virtual machine, a solution was developed using double-checked locking to avoid data races.
- The problem originated from uninitialized memory in the Btrfs system, causing block ownership and data structure discrepancies, which were rectified by fixing the bug, eliminating system errors and data corruption.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39765715)

- The discussion delves into using Btrfs and ZFS filesystems, covering bug hunting, system migration, reliability, and comparisons between various options.
- Users exchange experiences, concerns, and preferences on file system performance, stability, deployment, and risks, particularly in production environments like PostgreSQL databases.
- Legal implications, compatibility, data recovery, and potential future advancements in filesystems are debated, highlighting both challenges and benefits.

## [Redis Repository Updates License Terms](https://github.com/redis/redis/blob/unstable/LICENSE.txt)

- The public repository for Redis has an impressive 23.1k forks and 63.8k stars, showcasing its popularity among developers.
- It also has 2k code issues and 522 pull requests, indicating active engagement within the community for issue resolution and code contributions.
- The repository provides details on the license, file metadata, and controls, offering comprehensive information for users and contributors.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39775332)

- Redis Labs altered the license of their modules in 2018, leading to the departure of project creator Salvatore Sanfilippo in 2020, sparking debates on open-source licenses.
- Users are deliberating the potential forks of Redis, the implications of permissive versus copyleft licenses, and the impact on commercial use, individual freedoms, and the open-source community dynamics.
- Discussions also center around the use of C# and Java in projects like Microsoft's Garnet, alongside concerns about Redis losing its open-source status, impacting its integration, legal risks, and user adoption.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Exploring Shattered Pixel Dungeon: A Traditional Roguelike" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Exploring%20Shattered%20Pixel%20Dungeon%3A%20A%20Traditional%20Roguelike&subheading=Thursday%2C%20March%2021%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
