---
slug: '/2024/03/23'
---

# 2024-03-23

## [Boom Supersonic's XB-1 Aircraft Completes Successful Flight](https://boomsupersonic.com/flyby/inaugural-first-flight-xb1-supersonic-demonstrator)

- Boom Supersonic achieved a significant milestone by completing the inaugural flight of its XB-1 demonstrator aircraft, signaling a promising return to supersonic travel.
- The aircraft, equipped with cutting-edge technologies and modern design, signals the resurgence of civil supersonic planes, paving the way for Boom's Overture supersonic airliner.
- Industry experts commend the program for its potential to innovate supersonic travel sustainably, promising a quicker and more eco-friendly transportation alternative.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39793044)

- Coverage includes Boom Aerospace's recent flight test of the XB-1 aircraft, along with skepticism about their ambitious goals.
- Challenges in developing new aircraft engines are discussed, highlighting the struggles of China and India in this area.
- Doubts on the practicality of SpaceX's Starship for long-distance travel, feasibility and market potential of supersonic commercial air travel, and concerns about noise pollution and environmental impacts are also addressed.

## [Google Ordered to Provide Info on Viewers of Specific YouTube Videos](https://www.forbes.com/sites/thomasbrewster/2024/03/22/feds-ordered-google-to-unmask-certain-youtube-users-critics-say-its-terrifying/)

- The federal government has demanded Google to disclose details about viewers of particular YouTube videos, raising worries among privacy advocates about potential constitutional violations and risks to innocent viewers' privacy rights.
- The court orders showcase law enforcement's requests for user data in criminal probes, highlighting concerns about privacy, free speech, and unreasonable searches.
- Critics warn that these orders signal a concerning pattern of government entities exceeding legal limits in digital surveillance, while Google emphasizes its dedication to safeguarding user data and resisting unjust data requests.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39796550)

- The article explores debates on privacy rights and constitutional issues related to Google being compelled to reveal viewers of specific YouTube videos, touching on topics like mass surveillance, data ethics, and government oversight.
- Emphasizing safeguarding privacy and anonymity in the digital era, it discusses the delicate balance between personal rights, law enforcement requirements, and the risks of increased state surveillance.
- Furthermore, it addresses technology solutions, government influence on information dissemination, and the impacts of data collection and monitoring by entities such as Google.

## [Mozilla Ends Onerep Partnership Over CEO's People-Search Networks](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2024/03/mozilla-drops-onerep-after-ceo-admits-to-running-people-search-networks/)

- Mozilla is terminating its collaboration with Onerep, an identity protection service integrated with Firefox, due to the CEO's ties to various people-search networks.
- Onerep's CEO confirmed involvement with Nuwber, a data broker, underscoring concerns about consumer data regulation and the necessity for increased supervision.
- Privacy advocates emphasize the importance of oversight as KrebsOnSecurity investigates further connections between data brokers, including links to Russian entities and questionable industry practices.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39793754)

- Mozilla terminated its collaboration with Onerep due to the CEO's acknowledgment of dubious practices, sparking conversations on data privacy and the implications of partnerships on privacy rights.
- Discussions focused on the efficacy of data deletion services, the significance of ethical standards in archiving, and the reliability of security measures.
- Furthermore, debates emerged concerning the reputations of Mozilla and Google Chrome, highlighting the necessity of transparent communication in business alliances.

## [Emad Mostaque Steps Down as Stability AI CEO](https://stability.ai/news/stabilityai-announcement)

- Emad Mostaque steps down as CEO of Stability AI to focus on decentralized AI; Shan Shan Wong and Christian Laforte are named interim co-CEOs.
- Mostaque shows trust in the new leadership and the company's future while the Board of Directors and investors vow to uphold Stability AI's team, technology, and community through the upcoming expansion phase.
- The transition signifies a strategic shift towards decentralized AI within the company, setting the stage for potential innovations and growth.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39797176)

- Emad Mostaque stepped down as CEO of Stability AI because the company couldn't capitalize on the economic value in the AI market, especially in commercializing image generation AI.
- Suggestions were proposed, such as implementing paid, user-friendly interfaces and utilizing celebrity likenesses for image generation to enhance the company's performance.
- The discussion covered ethical implications, technical requirements, AI model limitations, business strategies, financial stability, open-source AI, and controversies within the tech industry, shedding light on the challenges encountered by AI companies like Stability AI.

## [Challenges of Airport Construction Amid Opposition](https://www.construction-physics.com/p/why-is-it-so-hard-to-build-an-airport)

- Airport construction encounters challenges such as noise pollution, environmental concerns, and urban opposition, dating back to complaints over jet engine noise in the 1950s.
- Efforts to mitigate noise through regulations and technology have had limited success despite strategies like flight rerouting and noise-minimizing procedures.
- While airports strive for efficiency with new runways and larger planes, community resistance to construction impacts persists, leading to ongoing congestion problems in busy areas despite increased air traffic.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39789920)

- The discussion explores various aspects of airport construction, transportation choices, and urban development, emphasizing challenges in airport building, transportation significance, and airport-city organization.
- It delves into topics like airport expansion complexities, green space availability, and distinct transportation preferences in the US versus Europe, addressing factors influencing airport decisions such as practicality, the environment, and transportation access.
- Examples of airport mismanagement, construction hurdles, and the effects of hosting events like the Olympics on infrastructure are discussed, including a comparison of airports across regions and their connectivity to national rail networks.

## [Exploring the Significance of the 2% Inflation Target](https://sites.lsa.umich.edu/mje/2023/09/04/why-the-2-inflation-target/)

- The Federal Reserve has set a 2% target inflation rate influenced by New Zealand's central bank in 1989 to stabilize prices and boost economic growth.
- Higher inflation targets are preferred to deter deflation and stimulate spending in economic downturns, impacting the Fed's credibility and triggering inflation cycles if changed.
- Establishing the right inflation target is vital for sustaining a robust and thriving economy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39793293)

- The text examines how the 2% inflation target affects workers' purchasing power, emphasizing differences between the wealthy and lower-income groups.
- It raises concerns about the precision of inflation calculations impacting benefits, salaries, wealth distribution, housing costs, and debt levels.
- Various viewpoints on economic growth, wealth perception, measuring economic advancement, inflation's role in wealth inequality, advantages, drawbacks, and strategies for financial stability are explored.

## [Bulma CSS 1.0 Update: New Features & Transition Ease](https://github.com/jgthms/bulma/releases/tag/1.0.0)

- The Bulma framework has been revamped to version 1.0.0, now powered by Dart Sass, featuring new elements like Themes, Color Palettes, and Skeleton loaders.
- Updates involve shifting to CSS Variables from literals, providing a new approach to personalizing through Sass variables.
- This version streamlines the transition process without requiring modifications to HTML snippets, offering the flexibility to tailor Bulma solely using CSS.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39790365)

- The Bulma CSS framework has recently launched version 1.0, praised for its syntax and component-oriented design, sparking discussions on its popularity among gambling companies and concerns regarding accessibility and licensing.
- Users debate between Bulma and smaller frameworks like Pure.css, with some valuing Bulma's simplicity and others favoring alternatives, including Bootstrap, revealing diverse preferences in choosing a CSS framework.
- Discussions extend to issues with Bulma's documentation, dark mode, and build pipeline compatibility, along with talks on implementing Sass functions, custom features in CSS, numeronyms in coding, highlighting various user interests and concerns.

## [OpenCat: Revolutionizing Robot Pet Creation](https://www.petoi.com/pages/opencat-open-source-robot-pet-framework)

- OpenCat is an open-source framework for constructing quadruped robotic pets, enabling individuals to build dynamic walking robots affordably and easily.
- It employs hobbyist servos, widely-used controllers such as Arduino and Raspberry Pi, and open-source control codes for motion tasks.
- The project, initiated by Rongzhong Li in 2016, not only powers commercial robot pets like Nybble and Bittle but also fuels global DIY robot projects, fostering collaboration, offering educational resources, and sparking interest in robotic AI and IoT innovations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39793912)

- The conversation delves into robotic pet development, touching on the OpenCat framework, potential uses in surveillance and military operations, ethics of AI firms, cost comparisons between real and robot cats, and pet medical care affordability.
- Transparency, open-source principles, and ethical reflections are key themes highlighted throughout the discussion.

## [Magick.css: Minimalist CSS for Easy, Customizable Web Design](https://css.winterveil.net)

- magick.css is a classless CSS framework inspired by TTRPG rulebooks and brutalism, offering typography, forms, media elements, and more in a single file without JavaScript.
- Users can customize the framework easily and add extra features like sidenotes and code/pre line numbering, making it versatile for various projects.
- It can be integrated into projects effortlessly either through a CDN or by downloading the file from the repository.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39793513)

- Users are praising magick.css, a minimalist CSS framework, for its distinctive font style and design.
- Discussions include privacy concerns and tracking issues with fonts, alongside recommendations for privacy-focused tools and platforms.
- Some users appreciate the design and features of magick.css, providing constructive feedback for potential enhancements.

## [Exploring Scarfolk: 1970s Dystopia Come to Life](https://www.collectorsweekly.com/articles/visiting-scarfolk/)

- Richard Littler developed the fictional town of Scarfolk based on his upbringing in 1970s suburban Britain, exploring fear and paranoia using authentic 1970s designs.
- Scarfolk is becoming popular, with plans for a British TV series, showcasing a unique take on history that reflects shifts in social norms.
- Littler's creation involves graphics mirroring period branding, addressing themes like surveillance, civil rights, and current politics, often mistaken for genuine historical items. "Discovering Scarfolk" book and social media accounts are also referenced.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39796216)

- The discussion revolves around Scarfolk, a fictional dystopian town from the 1970s, drawing parallels with current events in the UK government, highlighting eerie educational films and bleak architecture.
- Scarfolk's dark humor and social commentary are commended, with comparisons to similar works in the US, incorporating links to merchandise, books, and related content.
- The conversation delves into societal issues like amphetamine prescriptions for school behavioral problems, reflecting on the influence of dystopian themes in media and society.

## [DryMerge: Simplifying Workflows with Plain English Automation](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39792136)

- DryMerge is a tool created by Edward and Sam that automates workflows through plain English commands, allowing users to perform tasks like adding data to Google Sheets and sending texts.
- The tool uses AI to interpret user requests, streamlining workflow automation and removing the need for manual setup, with a semantic layer for understanding requests and a data plane for carrying out workflows.
- It seamlessly integrates with 14 popular services, and interested users can access it at drymerge.com/app to give it a try.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39792136)

- DryMerge is a user-friendly tool that automates workflows through plain English commands, integrating with popular services and prioritizing simplicity for non-tech users.
- Users are giving feedback on linking practices, mobile optimization, and possible integrations to enhance clarity, with various subscription plans available.
- The startup employs Large Language Models (LLMs) to develop DryMerge, with users expressing optimism about its potential, challenges, and competitive advantages in the automation sector.

## [Introducing Webtag: Free Text-Based Bookmarking](https://webtag.io)

- Webtag is a free text-based bookmarking website enabling users to categorize bookmarks with tags, share them, and transfer bookmarks from other services.
- It provides default private bookmarks, one-click bookmarking, limitless storage, and access on any internet-connected device.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39790003)

- Users are exploring different bookmarking apps like Miitla, Webtag, Pinboard, and Buku, expressing interest in advanced features like semantic search and AI organization.
- Concerns about traditional browser bookmarking methods, such as in Firefox, are prompting users to consider alternatives like Linkhut, Notado, Readwise, and Buku.
- The conversation extends to self-hosted bookmarking tools, using file storage for bookmarks, and repurposing APIs for unconventional functionalities.

## [Pack: Next-gen container format for high-efficiency file compression](https://pack.ac/note/pack)

- Pack is a container format focused on efficiently packing files with high compression and modern hardware optimization, aiming for the best compression-to-time ratio.
- It offers features like exploring and unpacking specific files or folders, emphasizing user privacy by not collecting personal data.
- Pack is open-source, licensed under Apache 2.0, based on SQLite3 and Zstandard, with encryption, graphical interface, and platform support planned for the future.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39793805)

- The discussion introduces the new container format Pack, aiming to replace older formats such as tar and zip, emphasizing zstd compression, fast single file unpacking, and cross-compatibility.
- Existing file formats like tar face limitations discussed for better data management, with SQLite proposed as a file and interchange format despite limitations and drawbacks noted by some users.
- Overall, the conversation centers on enhancing complexity, compatibility, and performance of archive formats towards a more efficient and user-friendly format like Pack.

## [Unprecedented 2K Earthquakes Detected Off Canada Coast](https://www.livescience.com/planet-earth/earthquakes/2000-earthquakes-in-1-day-off-canada-coast-suggest-the-ocean-floor-is-ripping-apart-scientists-say)

- Nearly 2,000 earthquakes were recorded off the coast of Vancouver Island in one day, hinting at the formation of new oceanic crust at the Endeavour site on the Juan de Fuca Ridge as the seafloor spreads apart.
- The seismic activity is attributed to the stretching of the seafloor, enabling magma to ascend and generate fresh crust, offering valuable knowledge on ocean crust formation.
- Continuous monitoring since 2011 allows researchers to closely study the phenomenon, shedding light on this natural process.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39792383)

- Numerous small earthquakes were detected near hydrothermal vents on the Juan de Fuca Ridge off the coast of Canada, part of a 20-year cycle with no immediate risk of a major event.
- Debate surrounds the categorization of these earthquakes, as well as discussions on plate movement and tectonic associations.
- Worries arise regarding ocean warming linked to diminished cloud cover caused by ship fuel emissions, impacting climate change and worldwide temperatures.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Boom Supersonic's XB-1 Aircraft Completes Successful Flight" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Boom%20Supersonic's%20XB-1%20Aircraft%20Completes%20Successful%20Flight&subheading=Saturday%2C%20March%2023%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
