---
slug: '/2024/03/24'
---

# 2024-03-24

## [Essential Linux Crisis Tools for Server Performance](https://www.brendangregg.com/blog/2024-03-24/linux-crisis-tools.html)

- Brendan Gregg's blog offers valuable insights and suggestions on system performance analysis, emphasizing crisis tools for Linux servers.
- He recommends pre-installing key tools for promptly diagnosing and fixing performance problems during outages.
- The blog discusses recent articles, upcoming events, and a range of subjects concerning system performance and observability.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39804214)

## [A Revival for Blu-ray Amid Streaming Dominance](https://www.audioholics.com/news/a-return-to-blu-ray-as-streaming-value-evaporates)

- The article explores the decrease in revenue for movie-disc media caused by the popularity of streaming services, presenting arguments for the continued relevance of physical media in the market.
- It emphasizes the fierce competition in the streaming sector, sustainability worries, and a possible return to physical media in the future.
- The author promotes backing physical media, citing their personal acquisition of a premium Blu-ray edition and sentimental attachment to collecting physical media.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39801088)

- The article explores the resurgence of Blu-ray discs for media consumption over streaming services due to user dissatisfaction.
- It discusses setting up personal media servers, ripping DVDs, and navigating legal and ethical issues regarding sharing media content.
- Users debate the pros and cons of physical media versus streaming, challenges of server maintenance, and the complexities of DRM laws.

## [New Aztec Codices Uncovered in San Andrés Tetepilco](https://tlacuilolli.com/2024/03/21/new-aztec-codices-the-codices-of-san-andres-tetepilco/)

- Specialists from the National Institute of Anthropology and History found three new Aztec codices in San Andrés Tetepilco, Mexico City, unveiling historical details on Culhuacan and Tenochtitlan polities up to 1603.
- The discovery showcases fresh iconography and Aztec writing, clarifying previously obscure glyphs and communication methods.
- The Mexican government now houses the codices at the National Institute of Anthropology and History, sparking enthusiasm for their future publication.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39803508)

- New Aztec codices were found in San Andrés Tetepilco, Mexico, acquired by the Mexican government from a local family, believed to contain previously erased Aztec text visible under multispectral imaging.
- The discovery expands the existing collection of Aztec codices, offering fresh perspectives on Aztec history and culture, including details about San Andrés Tetepilco's establishment and the Tenochtitlan polity.
- Researchers plan to conduct further in-depth analysis of the codices in the upcoming years, unveiling insights into pre-Aztec and post-conquest historical events.

## [Early-Onset Cancer Incidence Surges 80% from 1990 to 2019](https://bmjoncology.bmj.com/content/2/1/e000049#DC1)

- The article delves into global trends in early-onset cancer from 1990 to 2019, showcasing a rising burden and key risk factors like diet and genetics.
- Emphasizes the significance of healthy living and early screening programs to combat these trends effectively.
- Discusses how lifestyle, air quality, and genetic variations impact breast and colorectal cancer, along with insights on diabetes, gastric cancer, and Helicobacter Pylori infection epidemiology.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39803845)

- The discussion highlights the surge in cancer rates among individuals under 50, attributing it to factors like pollution and excessive antibiotic use, emphasizing caution in the medical sector.
- It explores the influence of microplastics on human health, the increasing prevalence of obesity and cancer in developing nations, and the impact of Westernized diets.
- The conversation also delves into the efficacy of modern healthcare in preventing cancer, the role of environmental elements in early-onset cancer, and the connections between estrogen, red meat intake, and cancer susceptibility.

## [Feedle: Discover Blogs and Podcasts with Ease](https://feedle.world/)

- Feedle is a platform where users can submit blogs or podcasts and search through millions of posts and episodes.
- Users can subscribe to RSS feeds to receive updates on new content matching their preferences.
- Feedle aims to grow its user community on Mastodon by connecting users with new content creators aligned with their interests.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39799752)

- The post delves into the value of blogs as sources of original thought, where users share experiences and propose solutions for content aggregation and audience engagement.
- It emphasizes enhancing blog search and categorization by introducing a search engine offering contradictory viewpoints and agreements on subjects.
- Users also advocate for eliminating dead links, battling SEO spam, and incorporating multi-language support, with praise for Feedle's content discovery platform and suggestions for podcast filtering and front-end enhancements.

## [The Tech Magnate who Acquired Pine Bluff](https://maxread.substack.com/p/the-man-who-bought-pine-bluff-arkansas)

- The code snippet features CSS styling for light and dark color schemes, images for success and error messages, button and link styling, and base64-encoded SVG images.
- It includes encrypted data fields and a JavaScript code snippet for modifying URLs and browser history in a challenge platform setting.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39802157)

- An article delves into a man's unique purchases and projects in Pine Bluff, Arkansas, igniting discussions on their practicality and community effects.
- It explores themes like minimum wage regulations, financial struggles, economic downturn, social problems, and contentious do-it-yourself initiatives.
- The piece also covers the transfer of monkeys from a research center to a sanctuary following activist demands.

## [Lapdev: Streamline Remote Dev Environment Management](https://github.com/lapce/lapdev)

- Lapdev is a self-hosted application facilitating the management of remote development environments on personal servers or clouds using the Devcontainer open specification.
- It streamlines development environments as code, ensuring scalability and simple replication, emphasizing minimal installation and maintenance requirements.
- Lapdev's roadmap includes potential enhancements like backing various workspace types and operating systems, with detailed installation instructions and contribution guidelines available on their website.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39801399)

- The focus on Github is the new open-source remote development environment management software Lapdev, compared to docker-compose and JetBrains's remote SSH dev.
- Users discuss benefits, skepticism, and explore remote development options such as devcontainers and Visual Studio Code, emphasizing improving experiences and automating setups.
- Challenges of manually configuring Docker setups, utilizing config files for containerization, and the significance of simplifying deployment processes for developers are highlighted in the conversation.

## [A Revolutionary's Final Stand](https://chinabooksreview.com/2023/10/19/a-spark-extinguished/)

- Former communist Zhang Chunyuan creates a journal, Spark, with students to critique the Chinese Communist Party and discuss farmers' challenges, facing imprisonment and eventual execution for counterrevolutionary acts.
- Zhang courageously expresses love for partner Tan amidst adversity, aiming to inspire resistance against the government's historical censorship efforts.
- Zhang's story highlights the personal sacrifices made to combat government oppression and uphold freedom of expression.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39800026)

- The article delves into filmmaker Hu Jie's documentary "Spark," focusing on survivors of a Chinese political movement and drawing parallels with historical governance patterns.
- Comments highlight similarities between the current Chinese government and the old imperial system, stressing the importance of learning from past tragedies in political leadership.
- Discussions cover the strengths and weaknesses of authoritarian regimes, risks of mind-controlling technology in politics, and the influence of historical amnesia on political systems.

## [Vintage Rotary Phones Revive MoMA Exhibit Through Interactive Experience](https://github.com/mnutt/rotary)

- The Rotary Phone Project recreates a MoMA exhibit by using vintage rotary phones connected to Asterisk and Grandstream devices for an interactive experience.
- It involves setting up Asterisk on a server, connecting the rotary phone, playing audio files, and configuring Twilio for phone calls.
- The project offers features such as checking MTA train statuses, accepting input, and sharing jokes, bringing joy to the author's son while presenting challenges like debugging SIP connections.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39801991)

- The Rotary Phone Project updates a 1970s rotary phone with modern technology, such as an Nvidia Jetson, to offer interactive features like answering questions, reading bedtime stories, and providing therapy sessions.
- This blend of nostalgia and cutting-edge AI technology results in a distinctive and captivating user experience.
- The project has garnered significant interest from multiple users looking to replicate or enhance it, indicating its popularity and potential for further customization.

## [The Intel 8088: Unpacking Instruction Prefetch Circuitry](https://www.righto.com/2024/03/8088-prefetch-circuitry.html)

- Ken Shirriff's blog provides an in-depth analysis of the Intel 8088 microprocessor, particularly focusing on its prefetch circuitry and performance implications.
- The blog compares the 8086 and 8088, elaborates on the decision-making process favoring the 8088 for the IBM PC, and explains the roles of the Bus Interface Unit and Execution Unit.
- Topics include prefetch queue synchronization, instruction decoder, processor design elements like flip-flops and control lines, and the importance of caches in memory operations. The blog also touches on electronics, programming, and space exploration since 2008.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39801963)

- The article covers topics ranging from the Intel 8088 processor's instruction prefetch circuitry to the historical development of base RAM configurations in IBM PCs.
- It explores the importance of timing tests in electronics, challenges faced in technical troubleshooting before widespread internet accessibility, and design choices and cost implications of processors like the 8086/8088.
- Discussions also delve into CPUID instruction history, cache memory configurations in processors such as the Pentium, and techniques used for processor type identification before CPUID was introduced.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Essential Linux Crisis Tools for Server Performance" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Essential%20Linux%20Crisis%20Tools%20for%20Server%20Performance&subheading=Sunday%2C%20March%2024%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
