---
slug: '/2024/03/25'
---

# 2024-03-25

## [Monolith: CLI Tool for Bundling Web Pages into Single HTML File](https://github.com/Y2Z/monolith)

- Monolith is a tool enabling users to combine a web page into a single HTML file with embedded CSS, images, and JavaScript assets, offering customization and domain control.
- It lacks support for dynamic content but can be complemented by tools like Chromium, while users can engage in the project and explore related initiatives.
- The software is distributed without guarantees and is dedicated to the public domain globally.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39810378)

- Users are discussing tools like Monolith, SingleFile, and ArchiveBox for saving and archiving web pages, showing interest in features such as bypassing bot detection and optimizing web pages.
- The significance of archiving web content during crucial events is emphasized, noting challenges like broken links and browser limitations.
- Users commend the convenience and advantages of these tools for preserving and organizing online content.

## [Aegis v3.0: Enhanced 2FA App for Android](https://github.com/beemdevelopment/Aegis/releases/tag/v3.0)

- Aegis Public Notifications Fork by beemdevelopment has launched version 3.0 introducing Material 3 design, auto icon assignment, batch selection, 2FAS schema v4 backups import, and last use-based sorting.
- The update brings bug fixes, stability enhancements, and improved performance for scrolling through long lists of entries with numerous icons.
- The release aims to offer a more user-friendly experience with added features and optimizations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39808921)

- The discussion focuses on the security and implementation of two-factor authentication (2FA) apps such as Aegis, Authy, FreeOTP, and Google Authenticator, highlighting concerns about seed storage across multiple devices and the effectiveness of 2FA.
- Various authentication methods like push notifications, WebAuthN, and U2F are debated for their security and convenience, suggesting standardized approaches emphasizing open-source projects like Aegis.
- Experiences with password managers, along with the Retool security breach due to SMS phishing attacks, underscore the importance of secure authentication methods and data redundancy.

## [Secure and Minimalistic TinySSH Server with NaCl Encryption](https://github.com/janmojzis/tinyssh)

- Tinysshd is a sleek SSH server focusing on secure cryptography with a minimum of 128-bit security, excluding older cryptographic algorithms and insecure elements like password authentication.
- It incorporates state-of-the-art cryptographic primitives and post-quantum cryptography and follows a development roadmap from experimental to stable releases, with the present beta release labeled as 20240101.
- Instructions for deploying the server are available for diverse methods like busybox, tcpsvd, inetd, and systemd.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39806139)

- Users are discussing the use of TinySSH, a small SSH server for encrypted drives in the Linux boot process, weighing convenience and security against potential risks.
- Topics include securing encrypted disks with TPM, Mandos, and server size debates, code complexity, and security measures.
- Discussions cover trust in OpenSSH, license issues, termination clauses in Creative Commons licenses, and SSH implementations in OCaml and F#, along with technical talks on using CryptoVerif, programming languages like Rust and LISP, and hosting repositories on platforms like Sourcehut.

## [Glossarie: Reading eBooks for Language Learning](https://glossarie.app/)

- An app created by an individual and their language teacher partner enables language learning through reading eBooks in the user's native language, emphasizing vocabulary and grammar in context.
- The app has proven effective in establishing a foundational comprehension of a language and is constantly enhanced for precision and user satisfaction.
- Upcoming developments involve implementing dynamic difficulty levels, enhancing practice features, improving eBook support, and integrating AI for advanced functionality, with user feedback playing a crucial role in refining the app.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39807912)

- Reddit users are sharing insights on language learning apps and techniques, such as Glossarie for vocabulary and grammar via reading native language eBooks.
- Recommendations include Language Transfer for audio courses and browser plugins to facilitate learning while reading online.
- Discussions cover the use of flags for languages, spaced-repetition learning, and apps teaching languages through cognates and pronunciation; developers are seeking feedback to enhance features and translations amid some user concerns about tool quality and fairness.

## [Unlocking Efficiency: Embracing async/await in Rust](https://notgull.net/why-not-threads/)

- The article compares async/await and threads in Rust programming, noting async/await complexity but necessity for handling concurrent tasks, especially in web servers.
- Emphasizes async/await benefits in Rust like efficiency, composability, and streamlining complex operations, challenging the belief that threads are superior.
- The author stresses the need for improved awareness on async advantages, positioning async/await as a valuable tool for enhancing performance in Rust concurrency.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39812969)

- The text debates using async/await versus threads or fibers for concurrency in Rust programming, praising async/await for explicit wait-points and future dropping capabilities.
- It highlights the challenges of user space cooperative concurrency, fiber design, and calling C code from a fiber, emphasizing trade-offs and complexities in different programming contexts.
- Topics covered include cancellation signals, low-latency needs, microcontroller applications, and comparing async/await with fibers across programming languages.

## [Teen's $800k Trading: Ethical Questions Arise](http://www.kentlaw.edu/faculty/rwarner/classes/legalaspects_ukraine/securities/case_studies/ledbed.htm)

- Jonathan Lebed, a teenager, earned around $800,000 by trading stocks, but SEC cited eleven trades as illegal for market manipulation.
- Lebed justified his actions, likening them to those of Wall Street analysts, leading to a $285,000 settlement with the SEC.
- Debate exists on the morality of his trading methods and the SEC's response to the case, sparking ethical concerns in the trading community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39807967)

- The discussion delves into unethical practices in financial markets like pump and dump schemes, stock manipulation, and scams, emphasizing the ethical dilemmas of deceiving for profit.
- It distinguishes between legitimate analysts and scammers, exploring the challenges in proving criminal liability for intentional market manipulation.
- The conversation also touches on the societal impacts of market dynamics and modern advertising's influence while advocating for improved laws and enforcement to benefit society.

## [Exploring Windows 98 Icons by Alex Meub](https://win98icons.alexmeub.com/)

- The Windows 98 Icon Viewer, developed by Alex Meub, enables users to browse and download all Windows 98 icons, such as those for the Recycle Bin, Computer, and Documents.
- It offers a comprehensive collection of icons associated with Windows 98 for users to explore and download.
- This tool provides a nostalgic journey for users interested in the iconic visuals of the Windows 98 operating system.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39813240)

- The discussion delves into nostalgia for iconic design elements in older operating systems like Windows 98, Classic Mac OS, and Redhat Linux's Bluecurve theme, focusing on icon design evolution and timeless symbols.
- Participants appreciate Susan Kare's early pixel art designs for creativity and detail, discussing the technical aspects and nostalgia of icon design in vintage operating systems.
- Mark Ferrari's animated pixel art landscapes from the 1990s are also admired, highlighting the complexities of creating pixel art in that era.

## [Author Develops Format Dialog for Windows NT](https://twitter.com/davepl1968/status/1772042158046146792)

- The author developed a Format dialog for Microsoft in late 1994 while transitioning code from Windows95 to WindowsNT.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39811604)

- The discussion encompasses a wide range of topics, including operating systems, file systems, software development, and engineering, touching on the history and constraints of Windows NT and FAT32.
- Conversations involve debates on the reputation of figures like Dave Plummer, temporary programming solutions, and user-friendly interfaces, where users express their preferences and issues with formatting techniques and tools.
- Anecdotes about past tech industry encounters and challenges with ticketing platforms such as Salesforce are also shared during the discussion.

## [Study: Language Models' Abilities Develop Predictably](https://www.quantamagazine.org/how-quickly-do-large-language-models-learn-unexpected-skills-20240213/)

- A recent study by Stanford researchers challenges the idea that large language models develop unforeseen skills suddenly, suggesting that these abilities may not emerge unpredictably but are influenced by how they are evaluated.
- Despite some scientists maintaining that the concept of emergence persists, the study underscores the significance of comprehending the behavior of language models as they expand and evolve.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39811155)

- The text explores emergent abilities in large language models, focusing on debates and critiques around evaluating these abilities in machine learning.
- It discusses challenges in defining emergence, limitations of models without hidden states, and predicting AI systems' capabilities, emphasizing the significance of constructive criticism for research progress.
- Additionally, it touches on using arithmetic to measure intelligence and the effectiveness of AI models in solving arithmetic problems, shedding light on the evolving landscape of AI capabilities.

## [China Phases Out Intel and AMD Chips in Gov't Computers](https://www.channelnewsasia.com/business/china-blocks-use-intel-and-amd-chips-government-computers-report-4218101)

- China plans to eliminate US Intel and AMD microprocessors from government systems, aiming to switch to domestic CPUs, operating systems, and databases.
- The Chinese industry ministry considers local technology "safe and reliable" for three years, intending to replace Microsoft's Windows and foreign database software.
- The US responds by enhancing semiconductor production through initiatives like the CHIPS and Science Act, while Intel and AMD have not commented on the situation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39808664)

- China's ban on Intel and AMD chips for government computers triggers debates on business reciprocity between China and the US, citing concerns over spying risks and promoting domestic CPU development.
- Discussions highlight global competitiveness impacted by China's tech growth, supply chain vulnerabilities, and potential ramifications of an extended cold war.
- Nvidia's AI chip sales to China and speculation about China's tech progress and stability draw attention amid concerns about economic and political implications.

## [Using Left Arrow Operator in C++ for Method Invocation](https://www.atnnn.com/p/operator-larrow/)

- Étienne Laurin explains utilizing the left arrow operator in C++ to call a method on a class with a pointer to the method.'- The discussion includes creating a template struct and overloading the left arrow operator to implement this feature.'- This post delves into a unique approach in C++ programming, showcasing advanced techniques for invoking methods through pointers."

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39808616)

- The debate focuses on pointer-to-member in C++ and its ambiguity regarding instance information, comparing it to delegates and method pointers in C++ and Virgil, with Virgil's method deemed more user-friendly.
- Challenges of utilizing member pointers in C++, the intricacies of operator overloading, and comparisons with other programming languages are deliberated, along with programming concepts and best practices shared for clarity.
- The discussion delves into the complexities of operator overloading, offering numerous examples and insights into best practices for clearer understanding.

## [Resolving Diacritical Marks Issue in File Names](https://unravelweb.dev/2024/02/12/the-u-u-conundrum/)

- The author faced a search filtering problem with file names having diacritical marks (e.g., umlauts) on their product at epilot due to encoding transformations, which they resolved by matching the encoding type of the search file names with the saved ones using .normalize().
- To address the issue comprehensively, a migration script was developed to standardize the names of all current files containing non-ASCII characters.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39808357)

- The article addresses text normalization challenges with non-Latin characters on various platforms, focusing on names in official documents and legacy systems.
- It emphasizes problems related to Unicode handling, transliterations, file names, encoding, and sorting across different languages.
- Discussion includes the importance of consistent encoding, pronunciation representation, and utilizing composing characters in Unicode to improve search results, prevent compatibility problems, and enhance text manipulation in programming.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Monolith: CLI Tool for Bundling Web Pages into Single HTML File" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Monolith%3A%20CLI%20Tool%20for%20Bundling%20Web%20Pages%20into%20Single%20HTML%20File&subheading=Monday%2C%20March%2025%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
