---
slug: '/2024/03/26'
---

# 2024-03-26

## [Sagrada Familia to be Completed by 2026](https://www.cnn.com/2024/03/25/travel/sagrada-familia-barcelona-completion-scli-intl/index.html)

- The text covers configuration settings, code snippets, and features concerning the CNN website, media players, and data encoding/decoding methods.
- It also discusses user consent management and reveals the projected completion date of the Sagrada Familia in Barcelona in 2026 after years of construction.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39815805)

- The talk revolves around the construction and effects of the Sagrada Familia in Barcelona, with diverse viewpoints on its design, importance, and timeline for completion.
- It discusses challenges like urban development hurdles, housing shortages, modern architecture, and historical conservation, along with how population growth impacts architecture and the changing architectural trends.
- Other areas explored are the decrease in craftsmanship, the role of modern technology in construction, and the necessity of precise terminology when discussing religious establishments.

## [ZenHammer: AMD Zen platforms vulnerable to Rowhammer](https://comsec.ethz.ch/research/dram/zenhammer/)

- The ZenHammer study reveals that AMD Zen-based platforms are susceptible to Rowhammer attacks despite TRR mitigations, with Zen 3 systems showing higher vulnerability compared to Intel Coffee Lake.
- DDR5 devices were also tested in the research, indicating potential bit flip risks, and the study's fuzzer tool is accessible on Github for additional investigations.
- Further research is required to gauge the complete scope of vulnerabilities on DDR5 devices, and the study, supported by research grants, was shared with AMD following responsible disclosure protocols.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39819599)

- AMD Zen-based platforms are vulnerable to Rowhammer attacks, stressing the necessity of using ECC memory to enhance security.
- Implementing ECC memory on AMD platforms poses challenges and costs, with varying levels of support across CPU models.
- The text highlights the importance of monitoring and addressing memory errors and emphasizes the efficacy of ECC memory in detecting and mitigating attacks on Ryzen CPUs.

## [Jampack: Optimizing Static Websites for Better Performance](https://github.com/divriots/jampack)

- Jampack is a post-processing tool designed to enhance user experience and Core Web Vitals scores by optimizing Static Site Generators' output.
- It can optimize images, CSS, prefetch links, ensure browser compatibility, fix HTML problems, and compress assets, working with any SSG or framework.
- Developed by the ‹div›RIOTS team, Jampack simplifies code and boosts website performance, making it a valuable tool for website optimization.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39816836)

- Jampack is a post-processing tool that enhances static websites by optimizing images, CSS, and assets to boost user experience and Core Web Vitals scores.
- Users have seen notable performance enhancements with Jampack, discussing Lighthouse score stability, insights shared on platforms like Hacker News, and the maintenance of projects related to PageSpeed modules.
- The conversation also covers critical CSS usage, static site generators, image optimization, lazy loading, and the potential for a Jampack feature to defer lazy content, offering insights and recommendations for various project setups.

## [Maximizing Code Clarity: esbuild and Redis Documentation](https://johnjago.com/great-docs/)

- Good documentation in codebases, exemplified by esbuild and Redis, is crucial for aiding new users, enabling easier contributions, saving time, preventing issues, and enhancing problem-solving.
- esbuild and Redis are praised for their detailed READMEs, architecture documentation, and code comments, facilitating user and contributor navigation and comprehension, contributing to esbuild's success.
- The article underscores the significance of dedicating time to documenting code, stressing its advantages even for seemingly modest or personal projects.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39819409)

- The significance of architecture documentation in open source projects is highlighted, using Redis and Laravel as examples with robust documentation.
- Challenges and advantages of documenting projects are discussed, alongside tools like Literate Programming and Diátaxis, while projects such as Guile Scheme and SDL2 are cited for their inadequate documentation.
- Emphasis is placed on the necessity for improved documentation in the free software community, referencing the GNU philosophy on free documentation.

## [Francis Scott Key Bridge in Baltimore Collapses](https://twitter.com/sentdefender/status/1772514015790477667)

- The Francis Scott Key Bridge in Baltimore, Maryland collapsed following a collision with a large container ship, causing a mass casualty incident with numerous cars and individuals impacted.
- The bridge collapse has led to a significant emergency response and rescue operation in the area.
- The incident highlights the critical importance of infrastructure safety measures and the potential consequences of accidents involving large vessels near bridges.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39825033)

- The collapse of the Francis Scott Key Bridge in Baltimore, Maryland triggered discussions on bridge safety and the influence of large ships on bridges, emphasizing the significance of robust construction standards and the intricacies in bridge engineering.
- The incident underscores the critical role of maintenance and design in averting disastrous failures, drawing attention to media coverage, online community reactions, and speculation surrounding the collapse.
- Reports mention the possibility of an FBI inquiry, misinformation online, and political factors influencing the coverage of the event, contributing layers to the ongoing dialogue.

## [Martin Scorsese's Extensive VHS Collection Preserved at University](https://www.theguardian.com/film/2024/mar/25/martin-scorsese-vhs-video-collection-archive)

- Martin Scorsese generously donated over 50 storage boxes filled with VHS tapes to the University of Colorado Boulder, displaying his vast assortment of films and TV shows taped between the '80s and 2000s.
- Scorsese's archival endeavor predates YouTube and Netflix, where he painstakingly cataloged thousands of tapes, utilizing them as references in his filmmaking journey.
- The diverse genres within the tapes play a crucial role in his creative workflow, prompting the University to digitize the collection for preservation and research endeavors.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39815936)

- Martin Scorsese, Bob Monkhouse, and Marion Stokes were VHS tape collectors, with Scorsese's collection now at the University of Colorado Boulder for preservation.
- The conversation covers using vhs-decode software to digitize tapes, archiving old recordings' challenges, and supporting underrepresented students in higher education.
- Emphasis is placed on prioritizing historical preservation, attributing roles accurately in archiving projects.

## [Introducing Tracecat: Open-source Security Alert Automation Platform](https://github.com/TracecatHQ/tracecat)

- Tracecat is an open-source automation platform tailored for security alerts to simplify security analysts' tasks in responding to alerts.
- It aims to be cost-effective and user-friendly when juxtaposed with established solutions such as Splunk SOAR, incorporating event-driven workflows, REST API integrations, and data validation.
- Tracecat, in its nascent development phase, intends to integrate with mainstream security tools, furnish pre-built workflows, and enhance documentation, seeking user feedback for further enhancement.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39819458)

- Tracecat is an open-source platform for automating security alerts, positioned as a cost-effective alternative to Splunk SOAR, developed using Python and SQLite.
- Discussions include the concerns regarding Tracecat's security practices, the challenges and opportunities in creating open-source security tools, and the viability of free and open-source software (FOSS) as a business model.
- There is mention of Quickwit/Tantivy, another software product, and the introduction of a new SOAR tool named Tracecat.

## [Packaging the First LSD Blotter: Eric Ghost's Colorful Innovation](https://thereader.mitpress.mit.edu/for-brilliant-color-packaging-the-first-lsd-blotter/)

- Eric Ghost, a prominent figure in the 1960s counterculture, distributed LSD disguised as film stock, associating it with modern media tech and highlighting its transformative effects.
- Ghost revolutionized LSD distribution by introducing the first mass-produced blotter paper infused with LSD drops, framing the drug as a scientific product inspired by modern research and pharmaceutical companies.
- The concept of "set and setting" influencing psychedelic experiences was pivotal in postwar psychedelic culture, and Ghost's narrative delves into LSD's clinical uses, controversies, like its controversial application as a "cure" for homosexuality, detailed in Erik Davis's book "Blotter: The Untold Story of an Acid Medium."

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39816423)

- The article explores Mark McCloud's collection of LSD blotter tabs, his encounters with the DEA, and his collaboration with Erik Davis on a book about this unique collection.
- Comments in the discussion cover various aspects of drug packaging, LSD dosage, effects, personal experiences with psychedelics, legalization debates, and the impact of psychedelics on creativity and cognition.
- Legal restrictions on psychedelic research and use are debated, with some advocating for their legalization and regulation to ensure safer access and highlighting the subjective nature of psychedelics' effects on creativity and self-awareness.

## [SPQR 1.3.0: Enhanced PostgreSQL Horizontal Scaling](https://github.com/pg-sharding/spqr/discussions/569)

- SPQR 1.3.0 is out, introducing new syntax for sharding configuration, enhanced protocol support, and intelligent shard rebalancing.
- Data migration between shards is optimized to distribute workloads evenly and reduce locking effects.
- The release notes provide in-depth information on all the updates and improvements included in this version.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39814877)

- Users discuss the system SPQR 1.3.0 designed for horizontally scaling PostgreSQL, debating its efficiency versus vertical scaling, sharing experiences in data processing with PostgreSQL, and complexities of horizontally scaling distributed instances.
- Challenges running PostgreSQL on AWS Aurora are highlighted, alongside performance enhancement strategies, limitations in connection pooling with PgBouncer, and the need to modify and deploy Citus under the AGPL license.
- The conversation incorporates historical references and Roman terms to explain the features of a router and complexities related to scaling problems in various scenarios.

## [AutoSpec: Generate OpenAPI Spec from Localhost Traffic](https://github.com/Adawg4/openapi-autospec)

- OpenAPI AutoSpec automatically creates OpenAPI specifications from localhost network traffic, streamlining API documentation development.
- The tool functions as a local server proxy, documenting endpoints, requests, and responses effortlessly, with easy installation using NPM and minimal command-line inputs.
- Future updates will introduce HTTPS and support for OpenAPI 3.1, with the tool designed to integrate seamlessly with any local website or application setup.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39817850)

- The debate over manual versus automated OpenAPI spec creation is discussed, emphasizing the significance of intentional API design in API development.
- Tools such as OpenAPI AutoSpec simplify generating specs from network traffic, while frameworks like FastAPI are effective in producing OpenAPI specs.
- Mentioned tools like Akita, Schemathesis, and Optic play a crucial role in API testing and exploration, underscoring the importance of precise and current API documentation.

## [Nano-web: Speedy binary webserver for SPAs](https://github.com/radiosilence/nano-web)

- The author developed a webservice solution in the form of a single deployable binary for containers or unikernels, tackling problems seen with setups like nginx.
- This solution provides low latency by caching all files in memory and permits injecting configuration variables during runtime for Single Page Applications (SPAs).
- It targets streamlining the application serving process, such as Astro from S3, by addressing routing issues, and the author invites others to experiment with the project.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39815976)

- The discussion centers on Nano-web, a low-latency web server tailored for efficiently serving Single Page Applications (SPAs), highlighting its advantages over setups like Nginx and its ability to manage routing for SPAs like Astro.
- Challenges involving SPA route management, ensuring correct HTTP status codes, and the diminishing favor of SPAs in contrast to other web development approaches are explored.
- Various web server options, routing tactics, and the significance of upholding SEO compatibility are debated, alongside considerations on leveraging unikernels and alternative tools for web application deployment.

## [Meta Suspends Business Over $40K Charge](https://tidbyt.com/blogs/tidbyt/meta-takes-40k-holds-our-business-ransom)

- The author recounts Meta charging their credit card $40K for advertising, then suspending their business account for losing track of the money, demanding an additional $40K via wire transfer.
- Despite the author's efforts to resolve the issue, including contacting Meta staff and contemplating a chargeback, they are confronted with losing account access and potential consequences from Meta.
- This story highlights the difficulties and dangers of depending on big tech platforms for business activities, emphasizing the associated challenges and uncertainties.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39819903)

- A business paid $40K to Meta for advertising services but is dissatisfied with the outcome, contemplating a chargeback for a refund but fears being banned from Meta Ads.
- Suggestions involve considering paying the invoice again prior to a chargeback, reaching out to shareholder relations for assistance, and being mindful of potential repercussions.
- Participants discuss risks and consequences of disputing charges with significant firms, sharing strategies to address problems with Meta and similar companies amid frustrations over big companies' lack of accountability.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Sagrada Familia to be Completed by 2026" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Sagrada%20Familia%20to%20be%20Completed%20by%202026&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20March%2026%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
