---
localized_date: April 30, 2023
top_news: 'Scrcpy: Display and control your Android devices connected over USB or
  TCP/IP'
---

# 2023-04-30

## Scrcpy: Display and control your Android devices connected over USB or TCP/IP

### [News](https://github.com/Genymobile/scrcpy)

- scrcpy is a lightweight application that allows users to mirror and control their Android devices via USB or TCP/IP without rooting their device.
- It offers high performance, low latency, and configurable quality, with features such as audio forwarding, recording, and screen-off mirroring.
- The application is free and open source and works on Linux, Windows, and macOS, with a lot of documentation and support available for users.

### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=35749366)

- Scrcpy has proven to be useful for those with broken phone screens and those who want to control their phone from their computer.
- Some users have found these tools helpful in their work.

## Remove "This incident will be reported." from user warnings

### [News](https://github.com/sudo-project/sudo/commit/6aa320c96a37613663e8de4c275bd6c490466b01)

- The "This incident will be reported" message is being removed from user warnings in the sudo program.
- The message used to indicate that an email had been sent to the administrator, but now whether or not an email is sent is configurable, making the warning inaccurate.
- The message was also confusing for users because they didn't know who the incident was being reported to.

### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=35752237)

- Comments on a Github commit about sudo reveal tangents about various tech topics from Unix to social media behavior, with the core takeaway being about how the sudo incident reporting feature is still present but only displayed if it's configured to be sent in the mail.
- The sudo command's "This incident will be reported" message has been removed in a recent update as it was unnecessary and potentially confusing to users, but some still find it amusing and developers are concerned about the lack of tests that cover such critical infrastructure.

## Live Starlink Satellite and Coverage Map

### [News](https://satellitemap.space/)

- The text is irrelevant to the title and does not provide any meaningful content related to Live Starlink Satellite & Coverage Map.
- There are no new or exciting developments related to Starlink or OneWeb GPS mentioned in the post.
- There is no reason for tech-savvy people to be interested in this post.

### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=35749130)

- Concerns over the potential environmental impact, high cost, connectivity issues, and monopolist telecoms power are raised regarding the launch of 10,000+ satellites by several startups who created the vacuum for the development of megaconstellations, which the cancellation and decommissioning needs a mandate for fiber infrastructure.
- Starlink network is already available where broadband is limited, offers high-speed internet and low latency, attracts customers who lack alternatives, holds a lead in the market, and plans to add more satellites and offer IPv6 support soon, but critics express concerns over the amount of debris in orbit.

## Children aged 2-6 successfully trained to acquire absolute pitch (2012)

### [News](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0305735612463948)

- No meaningful content found.

### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=35753838)

- Relative pitch is more essential for a musician's ability to sight sing, play in tune with others, and work in varying pitch situations.
- Perfect pitch is a learned skill that can be useful for musicians and can be trained with software or electronic frequency counters.

## Get The TLDR Of Any YouTube Video

### [News](https://www.you-tldr.com/)

- You-tldr is a tool that allows users to summarize YouTube videos, including searching, downloading, and interacting with videos in multiple languages.
- The tool can generate a TLDR (too long, didn't read) summary of any YouTube video in seconds by simply entering the video URL.
- You-tldr offers a premium version with additional features.

### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=35754793)

- There is debate on the ethics of blocking ads on YouTube videos, and users criticize YouTube for setting up a system of making money based on a theoretical model
- Users discuss the effectiveness of a new tool called "summarize.tech" that uses AI to summarize YouTube videos' transcripts, with suggestions for improvements and similar tools mentioned.

## Internet in a Box

### [News](https://internet-in-a-box.org/)

- Internet-in-a-Box is a solution to bring the internet to remote communities without an internet connection, wirelessly serving anyone nearby with a smartphone, tablet, or laptop.
- It can be customized with free educational content for schools, clinics, or families and can be built using either the $35 Raspberry Pi computer or the $10 Raspberry Pi Zero W.
- The solution has been deployed in dozens of countries, including remote mountain villages in India, as a way to provide access to information and education to those with limited internet connectivity.

### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=35750165)

- The system consists of a Raspberry Pi and several terabytes of storage to host an offline copy of websites such as Wikipedia, Khan Academy, and OpenStreetMap.
- The project has been deployed and tested in 12 countries, and the team behind the project is looking for volunteers for some of their digital divide open-source projects.

## Termux is an Android terminal emulator and Linux environment app

### [News](https://termux.dev/en/)

- Termux is an Android terminal emulator and Linux environment app that works without rooting or setup.
- It has a minimal base system installed automatically, and additional packages are available using the APT package manager.
- Termux features accurate terminal emulation, provides remote server access using the ssh client from OpenSSH, and supports customization and exploration of various packages.

### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=35752756)

- Respondents discuss their own experiences with Android's sandboxing and lockdown policies, as well as the benefits and drawbacks of using Termux.
- Play Store's version of the app is outdated, vulnerable, and essentially useless, so it is recommended to be installed from F-Droid or GitHub builds to avoid the vulnerable version.

## Study: ChatGPT outperforms physicians in quality, empathetic answers to patients

### [News](https://today.ucsd.edu/story/study-finds-chatgpt-outperforms-physicians-in-high-quality-empathetic-answers-to-patient-questions)

- A new study published in JAMA Internal Medicine suggests that ChatGPT, an AI assistant, outperforms physicians in quality, empathetic answers to patient health questions.
- Licensed healthcare professionals evaluated both quality and empathy for ChatGPT and physician responses to patient questions and preferred ChatGPT's responses 79% of the time.
- While AI won't replace doctors, working with technologies like ChatGPT may revolutionize medicine and improve patient care.

### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=35751276)

- However, concerns were raised about ChatGPT's potential to confirm biases and lead to misdiagnosis for hypochondriacs.
- The discussion centers around the use of natural language processing for generating responses in different domains, particularly in healthcare, and the need for effective prompts and regulatory frameworks.

## Sensenmann: Code Deletion at Scale

### [News](https://testing.googleblog.com/2023/04/sensenmann-code-deletion-at-scale.html)

- Google's multi-billion-line mono-repository, Piper, stores all the code-related source codes, which could become difficult to maintain over time.
- The Sensenmann project aims to automatically identify dead code and delete it, including libraries that are not linked to any binary and binaries that are no longer used according to their logs.
- The Sensenmann project requires both technical and social solutions to solve problems such as identifying the relationships between tests and libraries, and convincing engineers of the benefits of automatic code deletion.

### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=35755841)

- Although the system has limitations, such as requiring adoption of the entire Google stack for use, automated dead code deletion is a novel and practical approach to scaling industry best practices.
- Efficient code management, including the automated detection and removal of unused code, is necessary to scale operations and avoid resource waste.

## MRSK: Deploy web apps anywhere

### [News](https://mrsk.dev/)

- MRSK is a tool that enables the deployment of web apps on any host with the use of a dynamic reverse-proxy called Traefik and SSHKit to execute commands.
- The tool was initially developed for Rails apps but is now compatible with any web app that can be containerized with Docker.
- MRSK ensures smooth transitions between app containers by stopping the old one and starting the new one without causing downtime.

### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=35753106)

- However, heavily regulated industries may require vendor-specific offerings.
- Some users criticize MRSK for its lack of features, preferring Kubernetes for its well-established ecosystem.
