---
localized_date: June 16, 2023
top_news: Reddit's blackout protest is set to continue indefinitely
---



## June 16, 2023

### [Reddit's blackout protest is set to continue indefinitely](https://old.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/149zmar/reddits_blackout_protest_is_set_to_continue/)

- Reddit's blackout protest is continuing indefinitely, with many popular subreddits still inaccessible.
- The blackout is affecting Google searches, as old threads that used to lead to Reddit are now leading to private subreddits.
- Users are finding it challenging to troubleshoot issues or find specific information due to the blackout. They are resorting to using cached versions of pages and alternative websites like the Wayback Machine.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36341941)

- Lemmy is seen as a potential replacement for Reddit with its federated system of communities.
- Challenges faced by Usenet and web-based forums that were solved by Reddit could potentially be solved by Lemmy.
- There is a discussion about the advantages and disadvantages of centralized versus decentralized platforms, with some emphasizing the importance of decentralized services to avoid dependency on corporations.

### [Reddit Threatens to Remove Moderators from Subreddits Continuing Blackouts](https://www.macrumors.com/2023/06/15/reddit-threatens-to-remove-subreddit-moderators/)

- Reddit threatens to remove moderators from subreddits that continue blackouts protesting the company's plans to charge high prices for its API.
- Reddit cites its Moderator Code of Conduct and states that it has a duty to keep communities operational.
- Some subreddits, such as r/Apple, have decided to continue the blackout indefinitely, resulting in millions of users losing access to those communities.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36347711)

- Internet communities reliant on social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, and Reddit are realizing their dependence on profit-driven intermediaries.
- Emerging alternatives to centralized platforms, such as federated social media and self-hosted forums, are gaining traction.
- The tension between Reddit admins and moderators highlights power dynamics and the need for user-centric platforms.

### [My 24 year old HP Jornada can do things an iPhone still can't do](https://raymii.org/s/blog/My_24_year_old_HP_Jornada_can_do_things_your_modern_iPhone_still_cant_do.html)

- The author discusses their favorite retro device, the HP Jornada 720, which is a small handheld PC released in 1999 and runs Windows CE or Linux.
- Unlike modern iPhones, the Jornada 720 can be used for software development - it has a C and C++ compiler, Python, and Perl, making it a full-fledged development workstation.
- The Jornada 720 can run native software and has the ability to develop, compile, and run software on the device itself, unlike modern phones that require a separate computer for development.
- The author emphasizes the importance of users being in control of their devices and being able to develop and program on them instead of just being consumers of e-waste.
- The author also mentions the availability of third-party Linux distros for the Jornada 720, such as JLime, which allows for a faster and more versatile experience.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36346254)

- The debate centers around Apple's walled garden and user control of devices.
- Some users prefer the walled garden for security and ease of use, while others argue for more openness and the ability to install alternative software.
- The discussion also includes historical context, comparisons to other platforms like Android and Mac, trade-offs between security and user freedom, and the current market dominance of Apple.

### [Sequence diagrams, the only good thing UML brought to software development](https://www.mermaidchart.com/blog/posts/sequence-diagrams-the-good-thing-uml-brought-to-software-development)

- Sequence diagrams are a useful way to document how different parts of a system interact with each other.
- They are a type of diagram that maps the flow of messages and operations within a system.
- Sequence diagrams can be used to model simple processes, like logging in to a banking app, or more complex scenarios with conditional flows.
- Despite the decline in popularity of the Unified Modeling Language (UML), sequence diagrams have remained valuable and widely used.
- Sequence diagrams are especially valuable for sketching and designing systems, documenting system requirements, and understanding existing systems.
- When creating a sequence diagram, it's important to start with the main flow (the "happy path") and then add complexity and edge cases.
- The key to creating a good sequence diagram is to prioritize comprehensibility over comprehensiveness.
- Sequence diagrams should focus on the big picture and the flow of messages, rather than excessive details.
- By embracing an architectural mindset and using sequence diagrams, software engineers can improve their design and documentation skills.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36342931)

- Sequence diagrams are considered the most useful type of UML diagram by many developers.
- UML diagrams can be enlightening for university students, as they provide a way to visually learn abstract concepts without getting caught up in practical implementation details.
- The post sparked discussion on the relevance and value of UML in modern software development practices.

### [Our Plan for Python 3.13](https://github.com/faster-cpython/ideas/blob/main/3.13/README.md)

- The plan for Python 3.13 is similar to the previous plan for 3.12, but with some important differences.
- Key improvements have been made in low impact monitoring, bytecode compiler, interpreter generator, and register machine experiments.
- Three main areas of focus for Python 3.13 are the tier 2 optimizer, enabling subinterpreters from Python code, and better memory management.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36339777)

- The Python community is divided on whether to remove the GIL from CPython.
- Removing the GIL could impact single-threaded code performance but could enhance concurrency APIs.
- There are concerns about compatibility with existing C extensions and potential impacts on the wider ecosystem.

### [Effective Rust (2021)](https://www.lurklurk.org/effective-rust/)

- This post is about improving your Rust code and using best practices.
- It covers various aspects including types, concepts, dependencies, and tooling.
- The post provides specific tips and recommendations to write more efficient and optimized Rust code.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36338529)

- The post discusses effective Rust programming and addresses potential flaws and disagreements with the author's recommendations.
- Comparisons with C++ are made to explain Rust concepts, which can be helpful for readers familiar with C++.
- Rust is a versatile language suitable for various use cases, including embedded systems and scenarios requiring fast, low-level code.
- People consider Rust a better alternative to C.
- Resources like books provide guidance for writing effective Rust code, but there are debates over certain recommendations.
- Careful consideration is needed when using smart pointers like Rc and RefCell to avoid misuse or issues.
- Iterators are recommended as an alternative to loops, balancing readability and complexity.
- Panicking should generally be avoided but can be useful in certain cases.
- Minimizing visibility of data in structures is common practice but can limit creativity and potential uses of the API.
- Clippy, a linting tool, provides suggestions for code improvement but may not align with individual preferences.
- Some people experience Rust fatigue due to the learning curve and complexity of the language.

### [Unihiker, an $80 single-board PC with 2.8" touchscreen, quad-core ARM Cortex-A35](https://www.unihiker.com/)

- Unihiker is a single-board computer (SBC) with a 2.8-inch touchscreen, Wi-Fi, and Bluetooth.
- It has built-in sensors like a light sensor, accelerometer, gyroscope, and microphone, and can communicate with various analog/digital/I2C/UART/SPI sensors and actuators.
- Unihiker offers a pre-installed software for an easy and fast start, and supports programming with Python using Jupyter Notebook, even from a smartphone or tablet.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36341287)

- Some users believe the Unihiker lacks ecosystem support and has an outdated software stack, making it dead on arrival.
- Users suggest that used Intel NUCs or similar devices offer better value and more support at a similar price point.
- Raspberry Pi is praised for its powerful hardware and regular updates, while non-Raspberry Pi boards are criticized for broken software and lack of support.

## Archaeologists find 3000-year-old sword, exceptionally well preserved](https://newsingermany.com/archaeologists-find-3000-year-old-sword/)

### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36340671)

- A 3000-year-old sword has been discovered in Germany, exceptionally well preserved.
- The sword is made of bronze, which does not rust, making it more resilient than medieval iron swords.
- The discovery has generated interest because of the level of craftsmanship and detail on the sword, as well as the rarity of finding such well-preserved artifacts from this era.

### [On the slow productivity of John Wick](https://calnewport.com/on-the-slow-productivity-of-john-wick/)

- The success of the movie John Wick is attributed to its visually-arresting action sequences.
- The director, Chad Stahelski, used long takes to capture the balletic precision of the fighting, in contrast to the chaotic, quick-cutting style of other action franchises.
- Keanu Reeves trained extensively to become proficient in judo, jiu-jitsu, and tactical 3-gun shooting for the film.
- The productivity mindset in the arts, such as filmmaking, differs from traditional office jobs where busyness and multitasking are valued.
- The story of John Wick's success raises questions about whether the definition of productivity in knowledge work is the most profitable use of talents.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36335104)

- The post discusses the slow productivity of John Wick and how it relates to the concept of deep work.
- Commenters debate the attainability of a career focused on deep work and the trade-offs involved.
- The post challenges the cultural emphasis on constant busyness and highlights the benefits of deep work.

### [11 years of hosting a SaaS](https://ghiculescu.substack.com/p/11-years-of-hosting-a-saas)

- The author reflects on their experiences hosting a SaaS app for 11 years and shares the lessons they've learned.
- They started on Heroku but found it had limitations and was costly.
- They then moved to Digital Ocean, which initially worked well but had issues with scalability and downtime.
- Eventually, they migrated to AWS, but faced challenges in understanding and using all the features available.
- They formed a Platform Infrastructure Team (PIT) to improve stability and professionalism in managing their infrastructure.
- The author offers advice to their past self, including using managed services, setting up a PIT sooner, and prioritizing self-care.
- They express gratitude to their team members for their efforts in keeping the app running over the years.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36336748)

- Using managed services can save time and resources when building a product.
- Choosing the right database depends on the specific needs of your project.
- Cloudflare D1 and other similar services can provide cost reduction and simplicity.

</Steps>
