---
localized_date: June 26, 2023
top_news: Everything that uses configuration files should report where they're located
---



## June 26, 2023

### [Everything that uses configuration files should report where they're located](https://utcc.utoronto.ca/~cks/space/blog/sysadmin/ReportConfigFileLocations)

- Configuration files should clearly indicate their location in order to help system administrators manage various programs effectively.
- It can be challenging for system administrators to remember the location of configuration files for different programs, especially if they rarely work with those programs or if they have different configurations on different systems.
- Programs should provide a straightforward way to report the location of their configuration files, either through the standard help output or by explicitly mentioning the method to find out in the help output. The reported locations should be fully expanded and take into account environment variables, especially those following the XDG standard.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36465886)

- Configuration files should report their location and how options are read in.
- Understanding configuration file hierarchy is important to avoid conflicts and overrides.
- systemd has a complex but useful approach to configuration file loading.

### [Open-source resume builder and parser](https://www.open-resume.com/)

- OpenResumeBuilderParser is a free and open-source resume builder and parser tool.
- It offers a user-friendly interface and automatically formats your resume to save time and prevent formatting mistakes.
- OpenResumeBuilderParser is designed specifically for the U.S. job market and emphasizes privacy by storing data locally in the user's browser.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36470297)

- 'The Tech Times' editor shares a post about an open-source resume builder and parser.
- The builder is designed to help people easily create professional resumes with built-in best practices.
- Highlights of the resume builder include real-time UI updates, ATS-friendly formats, privacy focus, and support for importing existing resumes in PDF format.
- The tool also includes a resume parser to test the ATS readability of existing resumes.
- Feedback from the Hacker News community indicates that certain claims made about the tool's credibility and endorsements may be exaggerated.
- Some users experienced issues with resume parsing and formatting.
- The builder could benefit from improvements such as support for bold text formatting and integration with JSON Resume format.
- Overall, the open-source resume builder is praised for its simplicity, usability, and potential to level the playing field for job applicants.

### [The 'fuck you' pattern](https://cedwards.xyz/the-fuck-you-pattern/)

- The post discusses the concept of 'dark patterns' in the software industry, which are intentional designs that manipulate users into certain actions.
- The author coins a new term called the 'Fuck You' pattern, specifically referring to Instagram's behavior of forcing users to log in when trying to browse certain content.
- The author shares their experience of trying to bypass the login prompt and being blocked at the IP level, expressing frustration towards Instagram and its parent company, Facebook.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36467224)

- GlassDoor implemented a scroll-locking tactic that prevents users from accessing information without registering or signing in, which is seen as a betrayal of their core values.
- Users are required to leave a review for their current employer before accessing any information on GlassDoor, and negative ratings may be removed.
- GlassDoor's tactics highlight the need for increased regulation and transparency in the tech industry to protect user rights and privacy.

### [Ignoring boys' emotional needs fuels public health risks](https://www.wbur.org/cognoscenti/2023/06/15/boys-in-crisis-masculinity-andrew-reiner)

- Ignoring boys' deeper emotional needs in the name of early independence can lead to public health risks later in life.
- Boys are more vulnerable to the toxic effects of bullying and report higher rates of mental health problems.
- Fathers play a crucial role in providing emotional support to boys, which promotes cognitive growth, well-being, and stability.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36472041)

- The post discusses the impact of absent fathers and the importance of fatherhood in a child's life.
- Research shows that children who have emotionally invested fathers tend to have a stronger sense of self-worth and excel in various aspects of life.
- Institutions that promote male mentorship and provide positive role models, such as the military or sports, are important in fostering healthy development for boys.

### [XML is the future](https://www.bitecode.dev/p/hype-cycles)

- XML was once hailed as the future of programming but turned out to mostly be technical debt.
- The tech industry has seen many waves of hype, with developers constantly adopting new tools and technologies without thoroughly evaluating their pros and cons.
- There is a growing trend towards simplicity and a return to more traditional technologies like Postgres, Vue, and vanilla JavaScript.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36466248)

- The author discusses the frustration of constantly changing technologies in the tech industry and acknowledges the need to stay up-to-date.
- XML is highlighted as a once popular technology that has fallen out of favor, with JSON being presented as a more modern and efficient alternative.
- The post criticizes the misuse of certain technologies and emphasizes the importance of choosing the right tool for the job.

### [Tintin, Hergé and Chang](https://thewire.in/books/tintin-herge-and-chang-a-friendship-that-changed-the-world)

- The Tintin comics by Hergé became famous for their geographical and historical accuracy because of the friendship between Hergé and Chang Chong-Ren.
- Chang taught Hergé about Chinese calligraphy, painting techniques, and the importance of authenticity, which influenced the accuracy of Tintin comics.
- The Blue Lotus, inspired by Chang, became an instant hit and led to Hergé's invitation to China.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36468028)

- Franco-Belgian comics, such as Tintin, are popular outside of French-speaking countries.
- Franco-Belgian comics differ from American comics in various ways, including having non-superhero protagonists, longer issues released less frequently, and often being written by the same author.
- Tintin and Asterix are globally recognized and loved comics that have transcended cultural boundaries and have been enjoyed by people of all ages around the world.

## [Towards a "PCB Drone" – Making a PCB Motor which reaches 30k RPM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NX7GHqq28uU)

- A video showcasing a "PCB Drone" has been released, demonstrating a motor capable of reaching 30,000 revolutions per minute (RPM).
- The technology used in this project involves a drone-like device made from a printed circuit board (PCB) that can achieve remarkably high rotational speeds.
- This innovative development has attracted the attention of tech-savvy individuals due to its unique design and impressive performance.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36465572)

- The work and dedication of the creator of the PCB drone is impressive, with his methods evolving over time.
- The use of flapping light hologram technology in a product has been observed, potentially inspired by the creator's concept.
- The creativity, perseverance, and coolness of hardware projects like the PCB drone are captivating to many, including those more experienced in software development.

### [WinGPT – AI assistant for Windows 3.1](https://www.dialup.net/wingpt/)

- WinGPT is an AI assistant designed specifically for Windows 3.1, offering features like research, entertainment, and productivity support.
- The AI assistant is built using C and the standard Windows API, with connections to the OpenAI API server using TLS 1.3.
- Due to limitations in Windows 3.1's UI building capabilities, the UI components had to be manually constructed in code, and the set of standard controls available is limited.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36472854)

- WinGPT is an AI assistant for Windows 3.1 built by the author using the OpenAI API.
- Interesting challenges faced in building WinGPT included getting TLS 1.2 and 1.3 working on Windows 3.1 and learning about the memory segmentation architecture on 16-bit Windows.
- The UI of WinGPT was built using plain C code with the Windows API and a limited selection of controls in Windows 3.1.

### [Zotero Better Notes – Knowledge management inside Zotero](https://github.com/windingwind/zotero-better-notes)

- Better Notes is a plugin for Zotero, a platform for managing and organizing research and knowledge.
- Better Notes streamlines your workflows for tasks like reading papers, annotating, note-taking, and analyzing metadata.
- It offers features such as connecting knowledge fragments with note links, automating knowledge analysis with note templates, syncing with Markdown files, and exporting notes in various formats.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36465243)

- Users recommend Obsidian as a note-taking solution that has replaced all other note-taking tools.
- However, sharing notes with others and editing markdown tables in Obsidian can be challenging.
- Users suggest using plugins like Obsidian Webpage Export to turn Obsidian into a static site generator, or using Zotero for academic journal articles and feeding them into Obsidian.

### [Eight-mile frieze of Ice Age beasts found in Amazon rainforest (2020)](https://www.cnn.com/style/article/amazon-rainforest-ice-age-paintings-scli-intl/index.html)

- Researchers have discovered thousands of rock art pictures in the Amazon rainforest that depict Ice Age creatures such as mastodons and giant sloths.
- The paintings date back around 11,800 to 12,600 years ago and provide a glimpse into the lives of the earliest human inhabitants of the region.
- The findings are part of a larger project aimed at documenting and studying rock art in the area, as well as understanding the impact of human presence on biodiversity.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36470058)

- The rock art found in the Amazon rainforest depicts Ice Age megafauna, including giant sloths, mastodons, horses, and more.
- The paintings are estimated to be around 12,000 years old and provide insights into the coexistence of humans and these animals.
- The site where the art was found is difficult to access, requiring a freight or chartered plane, boat journey, and hiking.

</Steps>
