---
localized_date: June 27, 2023
top_news: Google has a secret browser hidden inside the settings
---

## June 27, 2023

### [Google has a secret browser hidden inside the settings](https://matan-h.com/google-has-a-secret-browser-hidden-inside-the-settings/)

- A secret browser has been discovered hidden inside the settings of Android apps, including Google suite apps.
- The browser has a private browsing mode with no history and automatically logs out of Google accounts at the end of each session.
- The browser has some potential security vulnerabilities, including the ability for malicious websites to manipulate local encryption keys.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36478206)

- Google has a hidden browser within its settings app, accessed through an embedded activity in Google Play Services, raising concerns about security implications and potential exploitation.
- The browser uses WebKit and has privileged functions for password manager key management and recovery, but the reason for implementing a custom browser instead of using the system default webview is unclear.
- The discussion also touches on Google's approach to security, user privacy, the effectiveness of parental controls, and the balance between device restrictions and personal freedom and responsibility.

### [Discovering that a Bluetooth car battery monitor is siphoning location data](https://doubleagent.net/2023/05/21/a-car-battery-monitor-tracking-your-location)

- A Bluetooth car battery monitor, sold under various brands, is collecting and transmitting users' location data without their knowledge or consent.
- The monitor records GPS coordinates, cell tower data, and nearby Wi-Fi beacons, sending this information to servers in Hong Kong and mainland China.
- The app misleads users by stating that no personal data is collected or shared, raising significant privacy concerns.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36485597)

- A Bluetooth car battery monitor app with over 100,000 downloads is sending GPS, cell phone tower data, and Wi-Fi beacon data to servers in Hong Kong and mainland China.
- The disclosure of this behavior raises concerns about the need for more granular app permissions and highlights the broader issue of data privacy and risks associated with connected devices.
- The post emphasizes the importance of holding companies accountable for their data collection practices and provides tips on reverse engineering apps to be more aware of data collection practices.

### [Mofi – Content-aware fill for audio to change a song to any duration](https://mofi.loud.red/)

- Mofi is a free online tool that allows you to change the length of a song without cutting off the end too early or making it sound weird.
- You can use Mofi to shorten or lengthen a song to match a video or performance, create an extended version of a favorite part, or make a perfectly looping version for platforms like TikTok.
- Mofi is convenient because it doesn't require any downloads or installations, and it can be used for free without needing to pay for software like Adobe Audition.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36480687)

- Mofi is a web service that allows users to import a song and define a target length to shorten or lengthen the song.
- The service analyzes the song and finds repeating audio patterns to create seamless transitions.
- It can be used to make any song match a video or performance with a set duration.

- The client can recompute and preview the results completely client-side.
- The audio previewing uses Tone.js.
- The project builds on similar analysis techniques as the Infinite/Eternal Jukebox.

- Other similar services existed in the past, like the Eternal Jukebox and Infinite Jukebox.
- The Echo Nest had cool music analysis toys and was acquired by Spotify.
- The tool can be useful for creating custom mixes or editing songs for specific purposes.

- The service struggles with songs in mixed meter or complex compositions.
- Users have different opinions on editing songs and staying true to the artist's intent.
- The tool can be used to modify songs for personal enjoyment or specific needs.

### [Corporate profits account for almost half the increase in Europe's inflation](https://www.imf.org/en/Blogs/Articles/2023/06/26/europes-inflation-outlook-depends-on-how-corporate-profits-absorb-wage-gains)

- Rising corporate profits have contributed to almost half of the increase in Europe's inflation over the past two years, as companies have increased prices more than their imported energy costs.
- Workers are now demanding pay raises to regain lost purchasing power, which may require companies to accept smaller profit shares for inflation to reach the European Central Bank's target.
- Inflation in the euro area peaked in October 2022 due to increased import costs, but core inflation remains persistent, putting pressure on the European Central Bank to raise interest rates.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36483276)

- The article discusses the relationship between corporate profits and inflation in Europe, highlighting that domestic profits account for almost half of the increase in inflation.
- Weaker companies may struggle to raise prices as much as their competitors, leading to decreased profits and potential business closures.
- Lack of competition in various industries can lead to higher prices and reduced consumer power, emphasizing the importance of competition in maintaining price stability.

### [I'm Done with Red Hat (Enterprise Linux)](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/blog/2023/im-done-red-hat-enterprise-linux)

- Red Hat's decision to put the source code behind a paywall is causing backlash in the open-source community, especially among developers who relied on CentOS for testing and building their software.
- The move is seen as an attempt by Red Hat to push users towards signing up for a Red Hat subscription and generate short-term profits, potentially at the expense of smaller downstream distributions like Rocky Linux and AlmaLinux.
- The future of enterprise Linux and the role of Red Hat in the open-source community are now uncertain, as users are considering alternative distributions such as Debian and Ubuntu.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36479882)

- Red Hat's decision to end support for CentOS and move towards CentOS Stream has led to frustration and disappointment among users.
- There are concerns about Red Hat prioritizing short-term sales over the open-source community and the impact on goodwill and trust within the community.
- The future of the Enterprise Linux community and the ecosystem around RHEL is uncertain, with users considering switching to alternative distributions like Debian or Ubuntu.

### [John Goodenough has died](https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/goodenough-nobel-laureate-who-gave-the-world-li-ion-batteries-passes-away/article67010369.ece)

- John Bannister Goodenough, the co-inventor of Lithium-ion batteries and Nobel laureate, has passed away at the age of 101.
- Goodenough played a significant role in the development of Random Access Memory (RAM) for computers.
- He was known for his kindness, integrity, sense of humor, and unique laugh.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36475949)

- John Goodenough, inventor of the Li-ion battery, has passed away.
- His invention revolutionized technology, enabling portable devices with longer battery life and lighter weight.
- Goodenough's work had unintended consequences, such as environmental impacts and non-replaceable batteries, but his contributions to the field of battery technology are significant.

### [Oregon finally legalizes pumping your own gas](https://www.thedrive.com/news/oregon-finally-legalizes-pumping-your-own-gas-after-72-years)

- Oregon has repealed its 72-year ban on self-service gas stations, allowing customers to pump their own gas.
- The change was prompted by fuel companies advocating for the repeal due to staffing shortages.
- The new bill also prohibits gas stations from charging more for full-service pumps, effectively eliminating full-service options.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36479974)

- Oregon has passed legislation legalizing self-service at gas stations, bringing an end to the tradition of full-service gas stations in the state.
- The decision to legalize self-service has sparked discussions about labor levels, market rates, and the value of gas station attendants.
- There are concerns about the impact of the legislation on jobs, safety regulations, and the convenience of self-service for customers.

### [Turmeric's unexpected link to lead poisoning in Bangladesh](https://stanmed.stanford.edu/turmeric-lead-risk-detect/)

- Researchers from Stanford University have identified turmeric as a potential source of lead poisoning in rural Bangladesh.
- Turmeric samples from Bangladesh were found to have exceedingly high levels of lead and chromium, which can cause serious health problems.
- A sting operation involving government officials and law enforcement was conducted to confiscate and destroy tainted turmeric products, resulting in a significant decrease in lead levels in the turmeric supply chain.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36481693)

- Turmeric is commonly adulterated with lead chromate, a toxic substance, in Bangladesh.
- This practice has been known for decades and is a result of the desire for a vibrant yellow color in the spice.
- The use of lead-based pigments in turmeric poses a health risk, and caution should be exercised when purchasing and consuming turmeric products.

### [JP Morgan fined by SEC for deleting email records](https://www.theregister.com/2023/06/26/jp_morgan_fined_for_deleting/)

- JP Morgan has been fined $4 million by the SEC for deleting millions of email records dating back to 2018, which were required to be retained under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
- The deletion of these records resulted from a project where JP Morgan aimed to delete older communications and documents that were no longer required to be retained, but glitches in the process caused the deletion of business records that should have been preserved.
- JP Morgan blames an unnamed archiving vendor for not properly applying retention settings, leading to the permanent deletion of emails within a specific domain. The company has since implemented measures to prevent future violations and enhance its record-keeping procedures.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36477936)

- JP Morgan has been fined $4 million by the SEC for deleting email records that were supposed to be retained for legal reasons.
- The incident raises questions about data handling by companies and the lack of enforcement of data handling regulations.
- The incident highlights the need for better data retention policies and practices, especially for companies that handle sensitive information.

### [U.S. pedestrian deaths reach a 40-year high](https://text.npr.org/1184034017)

- Pedestrian deaths in the US have reached a 40-year high, with more than 7,500 pedestrians killed by drivers last year.
- The increase in pedestrian deaths can be attributed to unsafe infrastructure and the prevalence of SUVs, which are more dangerous for pedestrians.
- Lawmakers have strategies at their disposal to address the crisis, such as implementing traffic calming measures like sharp corners, pedestrian islands, and bike lanes, as well as enforcing lower speed limits.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36480122)

- U.S. pedestrian deaths have reached a 40-year high.
- The rise of SUVs and pickups, as well as distracted driving, contribute to pedestrian accidents.
- To address pedestrian safety, there is a need for improved infrastructure, stricter regulations, and increased awareness and education for both drivers and pedestrians.


