---
localized_date: June 28, 2023
top_news: macOS command-line tools you might not know about
---

## June 28, 2023

### [macOS command-line tools you might not know about](https://saurabhs.org/advanced-macos-commands)

- The macOS command-line tools mentioned in this post provide unique functionalities that can be useful for various tasks.
- Some of the highlighted tools include caffeinate for preventing Mac from sleeping, pbcopy and pbpaste for interacting with the system clipboard, and sips for image manipulation.
- The post also covers other tools for tasks such as taking screenshots, controlling process scheduling, configuring network settings, managing OS updates, and viewing system information.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36491704)

- The post covers various macOS command-line tools that are not widely known.
- Examples of commands like "sips" and "iconutil" are provided for tasks like generating app icons and manipulating images.
- Other tools like "pbcopy", "pbpaste", "open", "diskutil", "airport", and "hidutil" are mentioned for tasks related to clipboard, opening files and folders, managing disks and volumes, working with Wi-Fi settings, and remapping keys on a keyboard.

### [The Password Game](https://neal.fun/password-game/)

- The post is about choosing a password, which is an important aspect of online security.
- Choosing a strong and unique password is crucial to protect personal information and prevent unauthorized access.
- The post emphasizes the importance of avoiding common passwords and using a combination of letters, numbers, and special characters.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36493715)

- "The Password Game" is a fun and challenging online game that tests your ability to create a password that meets a series of specific requirements.
- The game includes various rules, such as including specific characters, numbers, uppercase letters, and special symbols in the password, as well as meeting certain conditions, like the digits adding up to a specific number or including the current phase of the moon as an emoji.
- The game incorporates elements of chess, geography, and other puzzles, keeping players engaged and entertained as they navigate through the different challenges.
- Users may encounter obstacles, such as the need to find a specific YouTube video length or decipher a random captcha, adding an extra level of difficulty to the game.
- Some players have reported getting stuck at certain points due to conflicting rules or challenging conditions, but the game's randomization ensures that each playthrough is unique and presents new challenges.
- Overall, "The Password Game" offers an entertaining experience that encourages players to think creatively and strategize when creating passwords, while also highlighting the complexity and potential pitfalls of password requirements commonly used in the real world.

### [Outlook now ignores Windows' Default Browser and opens links in Edge by default](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/topic/outlook-emails-open-next-to-web-links-in-microsoft-edge-b0e1a1c1-bd62-462c-9ed5-5938b9c649f0)

- Microsoft Outlook now opens browser links in Microsoft Edge by default for users with Microsoft 365 Personal or Family subscriptions.
- This integration allows users to easily access and respond to emails and web content in a side-by-side view.
- Users have the option to turn off this feature if it doesn't suit their preferences.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36492329)

- Outlook now opens links in Edge by default, disregarding the user's default browser in Windows.
- Users are frustrated with Microsoft's decision, feeling that it infringes on their control over the software they use.
- Concerns about data privacy and the dominance of certain companies in the tech industry are raised, leading to discussions about alternatives such as Linux and open source software.

### [FedEx Accused of Largest Odometer Rollback Fraud in History with Used Vans](https://www.thedrive.com/news/fedex-accused-of-largest-odometer-rollback-fraud-in-history-with-used-vans)

- FedEx is being accused of engaging in the largest odometer rollback fraud in history by replacing odometers on used vans and selling them with inaccurate mileage.
- The lawsuit alleges that FedEx and its fleet company, Holman Fleet Leasing, intentionally replaced the odometers to artificially increase the value of the vans and sell them for higher prices at auctions throughout the United States.
- The real mileage of the vans was sometimes four times higher than what was indicated on the new odometers, leading to mechanical issues and financial losses for the buyers. FedEx denies the allegations and plans to vigorously defend the lawsuit.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36492010)

- FedEx is facing a class-action lawsuit accusing them of engaging in odometer rollback fraud with their used vans, which involved replacing the odometers to inflate their values before selling them at auctions.
- Skepticism is encouraged towards the allegations, as they are based on a complaint from class-action lawyers known for spinning stories and the accused fraud may have been carried out by individuals at a non-executive level.
- It is important to await additional evidence before making conclusions about the accuracy of the claims, as the lawsuit is ongoing and both companies deny the allegations.

### [The hidden cost of air quality monitoring](https://www.airgradient.com/blog/hidden-costs-of-air-quality-monitoring/)

- Some air quality monitor manufacturers are increasing hidden costs for customers, such as expensive proprietary sensor modules and lock-in to their ecosystem.
- Many air quality monitors have a short lifespan and are difficult to repair, prioritizing short-term profit over product longevity.
- Data ownership and monetization practices are often unclear, with some companies claiming ownership of the data collected by their monitors.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36499905)

- AirGradient is a company focused on making air quality monitoring accessible and affordable.
- They have open-sourced their air quality designs and are collaborating with NGOs and universities to bring low-cost monitoring to underserved communities.
- There is growing interest in air quality monitoring due to increased awareness of the health and environmental impacts of airborne particulates.

### [The Deep Sea (2019)](https://neal.fun/deep-sea/)

- The post explores the fascinating world of the deep sea, including the different species and adaptations that allow them to survive in such extreme environments.
- It highlights the record-breaking achievements of humans in exploring the deep sea, including the deepest scuba dive and the first manned descent to the Challenger Deep, the deepest point in the ocean.
- The post emphasizes the vastness and mystery of the deep sea, with new discoveries and fascinating facts about its unique inhabitants.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36491514)

- The USS Johnston is no longer the deepest wreck found; another ship lost at the Battle Off Samar, the USS Samuel B. Roberts, now holds that record.
- There are more people who have been to the Challenger Deep, the deepest part of the ocean, than have been to the moon.
- Communication in the deep sea is limited due to water's absorption of the electromagnetic spectrum, requiring low-frequency or acoustic communication methods.

### [Is ORM still an anti-pattern?](https://github.com/getlago/lago/wiki/Is-ORM-still-an-%27anti-pattern%27%3F)

- ORMs (Object-Relational Mapping) are an abstraction that helps software developers interact with databases more easily.
- While ORMs are not perfect and have their criticisms, they are not inherently bad and can be efficient if used correctly.
- The main issues with ORMs are the paradigm mismatch between objects and relational databases, and the challenges with visibility and debugging.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36497613)

- The post discusses the debate around whether ORM (Object-Relational Mapping) is still considered an anti-pattern in software development.
- Some developers argue that ORM has drawbacks, such as not needing to know SQL and the creation of an "anemic domain model."
- There are alternatives to ORMs, such as query builders or custom flavor ORM query languages that allow developers to write normal SQL.

### [Build your own Docker with Linux namespaces, cgroups, and chroot](https://akashrajpurohit.com/blog/build-your-own-docker-with-linux-namespaces-cgroups-and-chroot-handson-guide/)

- Docker is a popular containerization platform that uses Linux namespaces, cgroups, and chroot to provide isolation, resource management, and security for applications.
- This guide offers a practical, step-by-step explanation of how to build a basic container environment from scratch using these foundational technologies.
- By gaining a deeper understanding of these underlying technologies, developers can create more efficient and isolated environments for their applications.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36488356)

- The article discusses the concept of building your own Docker using Linux namespaces, cgroups, and chroot.
- The author explores the idea of starting from an empty filesystem and gradually adding the necessary files for the binary to work, rather than starting with a full OS filesystem and removing unnecessary components.
- Some comments mention the benefits of Docker's layered images, networking, container orchestration, and extensive tooling. They also highlight the simplicity and ease of use that Docker offers compared to manual configuration using namespaces and other tools.

### [LLM Powered Autonomous Agents](https://lilianweng.github.io/posts/2023-06-23-agent/)

- LLM (large language model) can serve as the core controller of autonomous agents, allowing them to perform complex tasks and problem-solving.
- LLM-powered agents can decompose tasks into smaller subgoals, reflect on past actions for self-improvement, and utilize memory to store and retrieve information.
- Tool use is an important aspect of LLM-powered agents, as they can call external APIs for additional information and leverage external tools to enhance their capabilities.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36488871)

- LLMs are neural networks that generate text based on previous input and probabilities.
- Beam search is a decoding approach used by LLMs to select high probability sequences of tokens.
- There are concerns about the potential dangers of LLMs, their impact on society, and the need for safeguards and oversight.

### [Open source AI is critical – Hugging Face CEO before US Congress](https://venturebeat.com/ai/hugging-face-ceo-tells-us-house-open-source-ai-is-extremely-aligned-with-american-interests/)

- Hugging Face CEO Clement Delangue testified before the U.S. House Science Committee, stating that open science and open-source AI are critical and aligned with American values and interests.
- Delangue emphasized that open-source technologies like PyTorch, Tensorflow, Keras, transformers, and diffusers have powered AI progress in the U.S., making the country a leader in AI.
- Hugging Face, a New York-based startup, is a hub for open-source code and models and is contributing to the open-source AI community. Delangue highlighted the benefits of ethical openness in AI development, including accountability, mitigation of biases, and value creation for stakeholders.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36499498)

- Hugging Face CEO testified before the US Congress about the importance of open source AI.
- The CEO emphasized the advantages of open models and open source in accelerating progress and fostering a free exchange of ideas.
- The discussion highlighted the need for balance in licensing, with some arguing for stronger licenses to ensure a fair exchange of contributions.

</Steps>
