---
slug: '/2023/12/27'
---

# 2023-12-27

## [Japan Moves to Break Apple and Google App Store Monopolies](https://asia.nikkei.com/Business/Technology/Japan-to-crack-down-on-Apple-and-Google-app-store-monopolies)

- Japan is planning to introduce regulations that would compel tech giants such as Apple and Google to allow third-party app stores and alternate payment options on their mobile operating systems.
- The aim is to address the alleged abuse of their dominant market position in Japan.
- The legislation, which will cover app stores and payments, search, browsers, and operating systems, is anticipated to be presented in parliament by 2024.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38773429)

- Japan is addressing concerns about the app store monopolies of Apple and Google, citing potential antitrust violations.
- The discussion focuses on issues related to competition, openness, and user experiences in the app store and gaming console markets.
- There is a debate about the regulation of app stores, the future of gaming consoles, and the importance of competition laws to protect consumer interests.

## [A Comprehensive Guide to Hacker News's Hidden Features and Behaviors](https://github.com/minimaxir/hacker-news-undocumented/blob/master/README.md)

- The article explores the features, behaviors, and guidelines on the Hacker News platform, including moderators, downvoting comments, and flagging behavior.
- It mentions bonus features such as Hacker News Classic and Hacker News Lists.
- The article also discusses the availability of the Hacker News dataset on BigQuery for data analysis and machine learning, as well as official RSS feeds, the HN Search feature, and content filtering on Hacker News.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38773957)

- The summary covers various topics related to the Hacker News platform, including moderation practices, undocumented features, hidden functionalities, user frustrations, color rankings, voting manipulation, banned accounts, and concerns about privacy and self-censorship.
- It provides an overview of the functionality, management, and user experiences on Hacker News.
- The summary captures the key themes and discussions in the given passages.

## [mRNA-4157 cancer vaccine boosts Keytruda treatment, reduces recurrence by 49%: Phase 2b study](https://www.freethink.com/health/cancer-vaccine)

- Moderna and Merck have collaborated to develop an mRNA-based cancer vaccine called mRNA-4157.
- The vaccine has shown promising results in preventing melanoma recurrence or death when combined with Merck's Keytruda treatment.
- In a phase 2b study, the combination therapy reduced the risk of recurrence or death by 49% after three years compared to Keytruda alone.
- These positive findings have led to the launch of a phase 3 trial for the combination therapy.
- The vaccine may potentially be available for accelerated approval in some countries by 2025.
- Moderna and Merck are also exploring the use of the vaccine in other types of cancer, such as non-small cell lung cancer.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38775439)

- The discussion delves into different aspects of vaccines, such as the efficacy and potential side effects of Moderna's mRNA cancer vaccine.
- It also touches on the ongoing debate surrounding the definition of a vaccine and concerns related to the safety and long-term effects of COVID-19 vaccines.
- The discussion further explores topics such as blood clotting issues, the significance of vaccination in the context of COVID-19, funding models for vaccine development, personalized vaccines for cancer treatment, drug pipeline progress and challenges, and the role of skepticism within the pharmaceutical industry.

## [Online Shopping Frustration: Website Chaos and Unclear Filters](https://www.openmymind.net/Your-Website-Search-Hurts-My-Feelings/)

- The speaker expresses frustration with the overwhelming number of options and lack of organization on various websites.
- They question the value of having so many choices and are puzzled by unclear categories and filters.
- Specific examples are provided, such as issues with Costco, Lazada, and Nintendo.com.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38771513)

- Users are expressing frustration with the search functionality on e-commerce websites and platforms, citing issues such as inaccurate results and irrelevant suggestions.
- Many companies are seen as prioritizing profit over search quality, leading to a lack of trust from users.
- Suggestions for improvement include better tagging and categorization, the use of language model-based learning, and a focus on providing incremental value to users. Privacy concerns and the hijacking of browser functions are also mentioned.

## [Amazon Prime Video to Introduce Ads, Charge Extra for Ad-Free Experience](https://www.theverge.com/2023/12/26/24015595/amazon-prime-video-ads-coming-january-29)

- Starting from January 29th, Amazon Prime Video will introduce limited advertisements, unless customers opt for an ad-free experience by paying an extra $2.99 per month.
- The purpose of this move is to enable Amazon to invest in content and better compete with other streaming services.
- While the monthly cost of Amazon Prime will remain the same, the ad-free streaming option will increase the total cost to just under $18, aligning with the approaches of other streaming services like Disney Plus and Netflix, which include ads on their cheaper plans.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38777516)

- Amazon Prime Video will begin showing ads starting on January 29, causing worries for users who utilize adblockers.
- Netflix and Prime Video have previously blocked users from viewing videos when adblocking software is detected.
- This move by Amazon may potentially impact the viewing experience for users who prefer an ad-free environment.

## [Apollo 11 Guidance Computer vs. Anker PowerPort Atom PD 2: A Comparison of Processing Power and Features](https://forrestheller.com/Apollo-11-Computer-vs-USB-C-chargers.html)

- The Anker PowerPort Atom PD 2 charger has a significantly faster CPU compared to the Apollo 11 Guidance Computer, estimated to be 563 times faster.
- The Anker charger also offers more program storage space than the Apollo 11 computer.
- However, it is unclear if the dedicated hardware capabilities of the Apollo 11 computer can be replicated in software, requiring further analysis.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38778390)

- The discussion explores the comparison between analog and digital computers and their respective advantages and limitations.
- It delves into the concept of Turing completeness and the significance of hybrid computers.
- The article touches on ongoing research in analog computation, the importance of context and communication in defining terms, and the concept of redundancy in computer systems. Additionally, it mentions the use of different computer chips in space exploration and advancements in computing technology such as the Apollo Guidance Computer and USB-C chargers.

## [Optimizing Learning for Software Developers: Research-backed Strategies and Practical Implications](https://cacm.acm.org/magazines/2024/1/278891-10-things-software-developers-should-learn-about-learning/fulltext)

- The article highlights the significance of continuous learning for software developers and presents research-backed insights on human memory and learning that are applicable to the field.
- It emphasizes the need to match instructional methods with the content being taught and offers practical implications for enhancing learning outcomes.
- The article addresses challenges in programming ability and provides recommendations for recruiting and training individuals, while stressing the importance of maintaining a growth mindset and goal orientation to overcome setbacks and failures. It also underscores the value of providing honest feedback and support to foster skill development and a growth mindset.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38777647)

- The article challenges the idea of "learning styles" and suggests that instruction should be based on the content being taught rather than individual learning preferences.
- The comments highlight issues with grading and standardized testing, emphasizing the need for personalized education and the role of expertise and intelligence in problem-solving.
- The discussion explores topics such as the limitations of artificial intelligence, the binary nature of knowledge, teaching methodologies, and the significance of both details and the bigger picture in learning. The replication crisis in psychology and the concept of long-term memory are briefly mentioned.

## [The Game Boy Color: Improvements and Innovation](https://www.copetti.org/writings/consoles/game-boy/)

- The Game Boy, a portable version of the NES, was released in 1989 and gained popularity.
- It had revisions and two generations, including the monochrome Game Boy and the Game Boy Color.
- The Game Boy Color featured a doubled clock speed, backwards compatibility, and added features like bank switching and extended memory.
- The system had limited graphics capabilities but included palettes and tiles for visual effects.
- It had an audio system with four channels for different waveforms.
- The boot process involved initializing RAM, copying logos, and checking cartridges.
- The Game Boy Color had different modes for running games and could communicate with other consoles.
- Anti-piracy measures were implemented to control distribution.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38775904)

- The article explores the creation of the Game Boy and Game Boy Color, which faced initial skepticism for the concept of portable gaming.
- The team's vision for a portable gaming device revolutionized the industry and popularized mobile gaming.
- The article also provides insights into the history of portable gaming devices and highlights the capabilities of the Game Boy.

## [The Piece Table: The Most Elegant and Efficient Data Structure for a Text Editor](https://www.averylaird.com/programming/the%20text%20editor/2017/09/30/the-piece-table.html)

- The author is developing a text editor and evaluating different data structures for the core API.
- Options examined include an array, a rope (a binary tree structure), a gap buffer, and a piece table.
- The author concludes that the piece table is the best choice due to its elegance and efficiency.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38772754)

- The debate centers around the optimal data structure for a text editor, specifically whether an array is the best choice.
- Various data structures such as ropes, balanced binary trees, and gap buffers are analyzed for their performance and ability to handle different file types.
- The discussion also delves into the challenges of managing large files and compares the efficiency of different text editors, specifically Emacs, NeoVim, and Helix, in terms of speed and performance.

## [Private equity acquisitions harm patient care, study finds](https://medicalxpress.com/news/2023-12-quality-declines-private-equity-hospitals.html)

- A nationwide study conducted by Harvard Medical School reveals that the quality of care diminishes after hospitals are acquired by private equity firms.
- Patients in these hospitals are at a higher risk of preventable conditions and adverse outcomes, such as falls and infections.
- The findings highlight the potential conflict between profit-driven motives and patient care and safety, raising concerns about the impact of private equity in healthcare.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38773426)

- Private equity firms have an impact on hospitals and the healthcare industry, with concerns about a decline in the quality of care after acquisitions.
- There is a debate about the pros and cons of privatization in various industries, including healthcare, and the role of government regulation in this context.
- The efficiency of private equity and the challenges of implementing a free market model in healthcare are also discussed, along with potential negative consequences of profit-driven motives in the sector.

## [UK Achieves Historic Carbon Emission Reduction, Unnoticed by Public and Politicians](https://www.spectator.co.uk/article/uk-becomes-first-g20-country-to-halve-its-carbon-emissions/)

- The UK has become the first major country in the G20 to cut its carbon emissions in half, with its current output below 320 million tonnes.
- This achievement is significant as it demonstrates the country's progress in reducing its carbon footprint, despite having a larger population and economy.
- Surprisingly, this accomplishment has received little attention from campaign groups and politicians, and is not being actively promoted. The data can be accessed on The Spectator data hub, tracked by the Global Carbon Project.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38770693)

- Critics argue that the UK's reduction in carbon emissions is partially due to outsourcing manufacturing and transitioning to a service-based economy, raising concerns about the exportation of emissions from goods consumed in the UK.
- Carbon accounting practices, the impact of Brexit on manufacturing, and the potential for double-counting of green energy production are discussed.
- The article explores the role of nuclear energy, wind power, and other renewable sources, as well as the effectiveness and convenience of public transportation. Different opinions are expressed regarding the impact of environmental measures on the economy, with concerns about political bias and the credibility of the source.

## [Get Unique Activity Ideas for the Holiday Break with Whataaabout.com](https://www.whataaabout.com/)

- The author has developed a website called whataaabout.com with the purpose of offering ideas for quick and distinctive experiences.
- The website aims to introduce variety into the author's daily routine and foster a mindset of lifelong learning.
- Users are encouraged to provide feedback and suggestions on the activities organized on the website.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38772382)

- Users have provided feedback about the short list of activities and misleading cost categories on the website Whataaabout.com, as well as bugs and inappropriate activity suggestions.
- The creator plans to add more activities based on positive feedback, and users have generally given positive feedback on the website, with suggestions for additional features and more realistic images.
- There are discussions on the use of CBD as a treatment for epilepsy in children and suggestions for various activities during the holiday break, including trying CBD and creating a minimalist gaming platform for children to learn coding. Users also provide feedback on a website that provides random activities, suggesting improvements and more variety.

## [Using Make: Simplifying the Makefile Process in Linux](https://text.causal.agency/001-make.txt)

- The make(1) command in Linux can be used to build C, C++, and Fortran files without the need for a Makefile.
- Environment variables like CFLAGS and LDLIBS can be used to pass compiler and linker flags to the make command.
- Including a rule in the Makefile allows for automatic rebuilding of source files when header files change, and adding a clean target can remove object files and binaries.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38774165)

- The discussion revolves around the challenges and frustrations of using Make as a build automation tool.
- Some argue that Make is complex and needs to be more user-friendly, while others advocate for its use and highlight its benefits.
- Alternative tools like CMake and Ninja are mentioned, with differing opinions on their effectiveness, and the discussion delves into dependency management, parallelization, and Makefile organization.

## [The SAT's Misleading Question: Counting Rotations & Brilliant Online Learning](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FUHkTs-Ipfg)

- In 1982, there was a mistake on the SAT exam where students discovered an incorrect answer to a test question.
- The article introduces the concept of counting rotations, explaining its applications in fields like astronomy.
- It discusses the diminishing importance of standardized testing and recommends the online learning platform, Brilliant, for enhancing critical thinking and problem-solving skills. The article offers a free trial and acknowledges Brilliant for sponsoring the video.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38775505)

- The discussion touches on various topics such as criticisms of a YouTube video, flaws in standardized tests, challenges in math education, improving the education system, and the concept of rotations in geometry.
- Users contribute their opinions, experiences, and insights on these subjects.
- This discussion provides a platform for engaging in meaningful conversations and exchanging ideas on diverse educational topics.

## [Interactive Map Makes Chicago's Zoning Code More Accessible](https://secondcityzoning.org)

- 2nd City Zoning is an interactive map designed to simplify Chicago's zoning code, inspired by Sim City 2000 and utilizing color-coded zoning districts.
- Users can navigate the map to understand zoning patterns, determine their building's zoning status, and identify ideal locations for their business.
- The project was developed collaboratively by DataMade, Derek Eder, and Juan-Pablo Velez, and features graphics, sounds, and music to enhance user engagement.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38777460)

- The discussions center around the issues with a zoning map in Chicago, including criticism of its clarity and data accuracy.
- There is debate regarding color schemes and design choices for the zoning map.
- Participants also discuss the influence of zoning on inequality, the potential for mixed zoning, SimCity, search button issues, parking in cities, and the impact of parking subsidies.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Japan Moves to Break Apple and Google App Store Monopolies" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Japan%20Moves%20to%20Break%20Apple%20and%20Google%20App%20Store%20Monopolies&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20December%2027%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
