---
slug: '/2023/12/28'
---

# 2023-12-28

## [First new U.S. nuclear reactor in 5 years begins operation at Vogtle plant](https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=61106)

- Georgia Power's Vogtle nuclear power plant in Georgia has started commercial operation of a new nuclear reactor, the first in the United States since 2016.
- The reactor, called Unit 3, has a capacity of 1,114 MW and will be joined by another reactor, Unit 4, expected to begin operation by March 2024.
- The Vogtle plant will become the largest nuclear power plant in the country once both new reactors are operational and will help reduce carbon emissions in the power sector.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38785468)

- The summary provides an overview of a conversation discussing nuclear power plants, renewable energy sources, cost-effectiveness, safety concerns, and the future of energy production.
- It highlights the challenges and advantages of energy sources like nuclear, solar, and wind power, including factors like cost, efficiency, and environmental impact.
- The conversation also touches on topics such as uranium mining, storage solutions for renewable energy, government support for nuclear energy, construction delays, and the role of different countries in energy production.

## [3D Mapping of Shinjuku Station's Indoor Spaces](https://satoshi7190.github.io/Shinjuku-indoor-threejs-demo/)

- The Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism has developed a control map for indoor areas around Shinjuku Station.
- The map covers multiple floors and pedestrian networks, providing detailed information on the locations within the station.
- This initiative aims to enhance navigation and accessibility within the station complex.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38786581)

- The forum discussions revolve around various aspects of navigating train stations in Japan, such as personal experiences, game suggestions, and subway system design.
- Users also discuss topics like staying in capsule hotels, travel recommendations, and challenges faced by expats in Japan.
- The forum also covers specific topics like navigating particular train stations, difficulties in understanding the subway system, and the use of 3D visualizations and models.

## [NY Times Sues OpenAI & Microsoft for Copyright Infringement](https://www.theverge.com/2023/12/27/24016212/new-york-times-openai-microsoft-lawsuit-copyright-infringement)

- The New York Times has filed a lawsuit against OpenAI and Microsoft, accusing them of using millions of the newspaper's articles without permission to train their language models.
- The Times argues that these AI models compete directly with its content, leading to a loss of revenue and damaging its relationship with readers.
- The publication is seeking billions of dollars in damages and wants the court to prohibit OpenAI and Microsoft from using its content in their AI models. Other news outlets, like the BBC, CNN, and Reuters, have also blocked OpenAI's web crawler, while some publications, including Politico and the Associated Press, have reached agreements to allow their content to be used for AI training.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38781941)

- The New York Times is suing OpenAI and Microsoft for copyright infringement, raising questions about the use of copyrighted material in training language models.
- OpenAI is criticized for not properly acknowledging content creators and there is a debate about fair use in training algorithms.
- The discussion covers topics such as data privacy, health data usage, copyright protection, compensation for creators, and the impact on traditional news organizations and open-source machine learning.

## [The Rise and Fall of Goitres in Switzerland: A Triumph Over Iodine Deficiency](https://www.lrb.co.uk/the-paper/v45/n23/jonah-goodman/a-national-evil)

- In the early 20th century, goitres and related medical conditions were highly prevalent in Switzerland, causing swelling of the neck and significant health and economic impacts for families.
- The cause of goitres was found to be iodine deficiency, and the solution was the introduction of iodised salt, although it faced initial opposition.
- The implementation of iodised salt in Switzerland resulted in a significant reduction in goitre rates, but the achievements of those involved have been overshadowed by the opposition of Dr. Eugen Bircher.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38782954)

- The article and comment thread cover various topics, including goitre, iodine supplementation, iodized salt, fluoride, public health initiatives, and historical health issues in Switzerland.
- Discussions in the comment thread cover iodine deficiency, benefits and risks of interventions, iodine's role in thyroid and other health conditions, debates on iodized salt, controversies on water fluoridation and vaccination, and the history of goitre and cretinism in Switzerland.
- The conversations stress the significance of iodine in public health and the necessity for more research and understanding in these areas.

## ["Triangulation" Campaign Backdoors iPhones and Uncovers Secret Apple Hardware Function](https://arstechnica.com/security/2023/12/exploit-used-in-mass-iphone-infection-campaign-targeted-secret-hardware-feature/)

- The "Triangulation" campaign targeted and compromised numerous iPhones, including those owned by employees of Kaspersky, a security firm based in Moscow, over a period of four years.
- The attackers exploited an undisclosed hardware feature to gain unprecedented access and installed spyware that transmitted sensitive data to attacker-controlled servers.
- Apple has since patched the four critical zero-day vulnerabilities exploited by the campaign, but the secret hardware function used to bypass memory protections was also found in Apple's M1 and M2 CPUs, raising concerns about the security of other Apple devices.-

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38784073)

- Hackers executed a 4-year campaign targeting iPhones by utilizing advanced exploit techniques, ultimately bypassing memory protection through an undocumented hardware GPU register.
- The article revealing this campaign has received acclaim from readers for its clear and comprehensive explanation.
- Numerous articles have been published, offering in-depth technical information and analysis on the operation.

## [Optimizing Number Checking with if Statements in Python and Assembly](https://andreasjhkarlsson.github.io//jekyll/update/2023/12/27/4-billion-if-statements.html)

- The author explores the problem of determining whether a number is odd or even using a large number of if statements.
- They use a Python program to generate a C program that can handle this problem for 8-bit, 16-bit, and 32-bit integers.
- However, they encounter limitations with the compiler and executable file size when scaling up.
- To overcome these limitations, they manually write x86-64 assembly code and create a function to check if a 32-bit number is even or odd.
- The program is shown to be performant and capable of handling a wide range of numbers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38790597)

- The discussion thread covers various programming topics, such as the usage of if statements, code performance optimization, metaprogramming, and code generation.
- It also discusses the efficiency of different programming languages, memory management, and the potential impact of AI on programming.
- The conversation includes elements of humor, skepticism, and personal anecdotes to make it engaging and relatable.

## [Operation Triangulation: Researchers Uncover iOS Attack Chain Exploiting Zero-Day Vulnerabilities](https://securelist.com/operation-triangulation-the-last-hardware-mystery/111669/)

- Researchers presented their findings on "Operation Triangulation," an attack chain targeting iOS versions up to iOS 16.2.
- The attack utilized zero-day vulnerabilities, including a remote code execution vulnerability in Apple's ADJUST TrueType font instruction and a JavaScript exploit to gain control of the device and run spyware.
- The attackers bypassed hardware-based memory protection using an unknown hardware feature on Apple-designed SoCs, exploiting unknown MMIO blocks related to the GPU coprocessor and specific registers to control hardware features and interrupts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38783112)

- Hackers with advanced research capabilities are discussing a potential attack on iPhones known as "Operation Triangulation," utilizing a custom hash function and zero-day vulnerabilities for ad tracking and cloud iPhone service detection.
- Speculation of insider involvement at Apple raises concerns about hardware interface security and the presence of a backdoor, with scrutiny on vulnerabilities in Apple's chips and ARM design.
- Discussions cover iPad capabilities, SMS messaging, and Apple's efforts to improve device security, along with web browser vulnerabilities, message app security, and the risks associated with hacking attacks. Concerns about Apple's security measures, device vulnerabilities, and the need for enhanced defense strategies are highlighted.

## [How Combat Won the Roach Wars: From Decline to Resurgence](https://www.theatlantic.com/podcasts/archive/2023/11/cockroach-bait-invention-combat/676167/)

- In the 1980s, a roach-control product called Combat successfully reduced the cockroach population, especially in government buildings.
- Researchers have created a new bait product that is effective against cockroaches resistant to traditional insecticides.
- The decline in cockroaches during that time coincided with the end of the Cold War, symbolizing concerns about nuclear war. Now, cockroaches are making a comeback due to their resistance to baits.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38782944)

- The discussions cover a wide range of topics related to pest control, including methods for dealing with roaches, bed bugs, ants, mosquitoes, and fleas.
- There are debates on the effectiveness of different products and chemicals, as well as the risks and challenges associated with pest control methods.
- The discussions also touch on the importance of cleanliness, potential side effects of chemicals on humans, and the use of natural solutions versus industrial pesticides.

## [Expanding ChatGPT: Leveraging Structured Data with API](https://minimaxir.com/2023/12/chatgpt-structured-data/)

- The article explores the usage of OpenAI's ChatGPT model and structured data.
- It discusses the benefits of the paid ChatGPT API for controlling the model's output and techniques like prompt engineering.
- The article highlights the use of the Pydantic library for generating JSON Schemas and working with structured data, covering various topics such as function calling, nested schemas, Union typing, and the importance of system prompts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38782678)

- The summary covers various topics related to the use of ChatGPT, including structured data support, issues with the function-calling API and JSON mode, and the effectiveness of error response grammar.
- It discusses generating JSON with the model, performance of different models in the OpenAI API, concerns about prompt engineering, and administering last rites in Catholicism.
- The summary also addresses efficiency of problem-solving approaches, the use of LLM and jailbreak technique, limitations of GPT functions, the effectiveness of providing tips, the non-deterministic nature of ChatGPT, personal experiences, and keeping the model focused during function calling mode.

## [Valetudo: Local-Only Operation for Vacuum Robots with Open-Source Software](https://valetudo.cloud/)

- Valetudo is an open-source software that eliminates the need for cloud functionality in vacuum robots, enabling local-only operation.
- Managed by Sören Beye, Valetudo has gained a significant user base and offers extensive documentation and a Telegram group for support.
- Licensed under Apache-2.0, Valetudo encourages code visibility and modification, providing users with ownership and control over their devices.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38788326)

- Valetudo is an open-source project that creates firmware for robot vacuums, allowing for privacy preservation.
- Users have reported success with Valetudo and appreciate its compatibility with different vacuum brands.
- There are discussions about the pros and cons of different vacuum models, as well as concerns about cloud support and privacy issues, particularly with Chinese companies.
- Opinions vary on cloud-enabled vacuum cleaners, with some valuing their convenience and automation features, while others express concerns about lack of control and potential security risks.

## [No secure iOS: Vulnerability in Chrome for iOS raises concerns](https://joshua.hu/apple-ios-patched-unpatched-vulnerabilities)

- Apple is still providing security updates for older devices like the iPhone 6S, but they only address certain security issues.
- A vulnerability in Google Chrome's Blink rendering engine that can expose system files is also present in Chrome for iOS.
- Exploiting this vulnerability on the latest version of iOS allows attackers to steal internal system files, including contact information, call and SMS history, browsing history, and cookies.
- Apple's response implies they may only patch vulnerabilities in older iOS versions if they are actively being exploited.
- This raises concerns about the effectiveness of iOS security updates for older devices.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38788273)

- The article discusses a vulnerability in iOS that can lead to data exfiltration, which is yet to be fixed.
- It highlights the challenges of communicating with Apple engineers regarding bug reports.
- The comparison between Google Pixel phones and iPhone SE models in terms of update support and affordability is discussed.
- The importance of clear communication about end-of-life operating systems and security updates is emphasized.
- The debates around providing support and security updates for older devices and the ethics of ending security support for them are mentioned.
- The pricing of Spotify on iOS compared to the web and the possibility of running Linux on Apple devices are briefly mentioned.

## [Reverse Engineering Train Control System: Analyzing Malfunctions in Modern Trains [37c3 Event]](https://streaming.media.ccc.de/37c3/relive/12142)

- The 37c3 event in 2023 will feature a talk on reverse engineering a train control system to analyze a malfunction.
- The presentation will discuss both technical and non-technical aspects of the analysis and provide insights into the operation of modern trains.
- The talk will be downloadable in multiple formats and languages for easy access.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38788360)

- A hacker group in Poland has uncovered software locks in trains made by Newag that were intended to hinder repairs by third-party workshops\.
- The locks were possibly implemented for anti-competitive reasons, preventing competition in the repair market\.
- The hackers also discovered different versions of firmware with distinct variants of the locking algorithm, along with a potentially suspicious GSM-to-CAN bridge that could serve as a remote control backdoor\.

## [Open-Source Rem: Revolutionary Solution for Locally Recording Computer Activity on Apple Silicon Devices](https://github.com/jasonjmcghee/rem)

- The concept of locally recording all computer activity on Apple Silicon devices is proposed as an open-source solution.
- This idea aims to revolutionize computer interaction by prioritizing privacy and security, ensuring that no information leaves the laptop.
- It is suggested that even logging to Sentry, a popular monitoring tool, may risk leaking private information.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38787892)

- The conversation revolves around the development and discussion of tools and techniques for recording and analyzing computer activities.
- Privacy and security are emphasized, along with exploring the potential applications and limitations of the technology.
- Other topics covered include the use of OCR technology, bug identification, troubleshooting, and mentions of QBASIC and bat/cmd scripts.

## [The Deterioration of Quality: A Look Into Disposable Products](https://walterkirn.substack.com/p/generation-junk)

- The article highlights the decline in the quality of products that we purchase, using personal anecdotes as examples of appliances and household items that quickly malfunction or break.
- The author explores the frustration and disappointment caused by these experiences and discusses the environmental impact and the perception it creates for the future.
- The potential role of planned obsolescence and differing opinions on economic factors contributing to the decline in quality are also mentioned.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38789411)

- The perception that products are becoming less durable is discussed, despite data showing that modern cars are actually more reliable.
- Factors such as companies prioritizing short-term profits and the acceptance of faulty items by younger generations contribute to the belief in declining durability.
- The discussions cover topics such as the reliability of old cars and appliances, the decline in quality and repairability of consumer goods, the availability and cost of high-quality furniture, and the importance of educating oneself on product quality.

## [High Myopia Increasing Rates in Taiwan and Asian Countries: A Leading Cause of Blindness](https://www.wired.com/story/taiwan-epicenter-of-world-myopia-epidemic/)

- Myopia (nearsightedness) rates are increasing in Taiwan and other parts of the world due to factors like lifestyle changes and limited outdoor time.
- Spending more time outdoors has been found to reduce the risk of myopia, according to research by Professor Ian Morgan.
- Taiwan has implemented programs to address myopia, but the COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted these efforts. Potential solutions include glass-walled classrooms and red light therapy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38782482)

- The summary is a compilation of comments and responses discussing myopia, a condition that affects vision.
- Participants share personal experiences and explore potential causes, treatments, and factors associated with myopia.
- The discussion touches on related topics such as retinal detachment, floaters, and the impact of urbanization on eye health.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="First new U.S. nuclear reactor in 5 years begins operation at Vogtle plant" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=First%20new%20U.S.%20nuclear%20reactor%20in%205%20years%20begins%20operation%20at%20Vogtle%20plant&subheading=Thursday%2C%20December%2028%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
