---
localized_date: July 1, 2023
top_news: Twitter now requires an account to view tweets
---

# 2023-07-01

## [Twitter now requires an account to view tweets](https://techcrunch.com/2023/06/30/twitter-now-requires-an-account-to-view-tweets/)

- Twitter now requires users to have an account in order to view tweets, meaning that if you're not logged in, you'll be prompted to sign in.
- This change could be a tactic to try to increase Twitter's user base, but it could also backfire by potentially reducing the visibility of tweets on search engines like Google.
- Elon Musk, who was previously CEO of Twitter but still involved in operations, may be motivated by a desire to prevent AI tools from searching Twitter.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36540957)

- Twitter now requires an account to view tweets due to concerns about extreme levels of data scraping from the platform.
- Users and experts are discussing the ethics, legality, and ownership of user-generated content on social media platforms, as well as the need for regulations and compensation models.
- The move by Twitter and other social media platforms to implement restrictions and monetize their services has led users to explore decentralized and open-source alternatives for social media and forums.

## Apollo is dead. Long live Apollo

- The post discusses the end of the Apollo project and the implications for the tech industry.
- It highlights the significance of Apollo in space exploration and the development of new technologies.
- The post explores the reasons for the end of the project and what it means for the future of space exploration.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36543894)

- The popular Apollo app, used to browse Reddit, has suddenly stopped working, leaving users without a way to access the site on their phones.
- The shutdown of the app has led to a sense of loss and nostalgia among longtime Reddit users who have relied on the platform for many years.
- Users of third-party Reddit apps, such as Apollo and Reddit is Fun, are experiencing issues as Reddit implements a new pricing model for its API.

## [Terrible real estate agent photographs](https://terriblerealestateagentphotos.com)

- The post discusses terrible photographs taken by real estate agents.
- The author wonders if a bonsai tree shown in one of the photographs is actually real.
- The post includes hashtags related to property, interior design, landscape gardening, and real estate.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36533193)

- Terrible real estate agent photographs are being featured on a blog called terriblerealestateagentphotos.com.
- Real estate agents play an important role in facilitating complex, emotionally charged transactions and providing market knowledge.
- There is a need for transparency and more fair practices in the industry.

## [Hurl 4.0.0](https://hurl.dev/blog/2023/06/30/announcing-hurl-4.0.0.html)

- Hurl 4.0.0 is a command line tool that allows users to run HTTP requests defined in a simple text format.
- The new release includes improved HTML reports with a detailed request waterfall, making it easier to analyze and debug requests.
- Additional features in Hurl 4.0.0 include new filters for decoding and XPath, changes to JSONPath evaluation, and support for custom HTTP methods.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36539144)

- Hurl 4.0.0 is a command line tool powered by curl, used for running HTTP requests defined in a plain text format.
- The introduction and code sample on the website are praised for sparking interest and making users want to try it out.
- Users appreciate the simplicity of Hurl and find it easy to use for API testing and integration testing.

## [Anna's Archive: Open-source data library](https://annas-archive.org/)

- The website "annas-archive.org" requires a security review before it can be accessed.
- The security review is being conducted by Cloudflare.
- The review is necessary to ensure the performance and security of the website.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36530662)

- Anna's Archive is an open-source data library that provides easy access to a wide range of books.
- The archive includes books that may not be available through official channels, such as rare or out-of-print books.
- The archive is valuable for people who have difficulty accessing physical libraries or need access to books quickly and reliably.

## [MdBook – A command line tool to create books with Markdown](https://rust-lang.github.io/mdBook/)

- MdBook is a command line tool that helps create books with Markdown, making it easy to create product or API documentation, tutorials, and course materials.
- It has features like integrated search support, color syntax highlighting for code blocks, and customizable theme files for formatting the output.
- MdBook is written in Rust, which ensures speed, safety, and simplicity, and it is used by the Rust programming language project.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36528984)

- MdBook is a command line tool used to create books with Markdown.
- It is ideal for creating product or API documentation, tutorials, course materials, or anything that requires a clean, easily navigable, and customizable presentation.
- MdBook is lightweight, easy to install, and has integrated search support, color syntax highlighting for code blocks in various languages, and the ability to render output in multiple formats.
- It has been used by the Rust programming language project, and The Rust Programming Language book is an example of mdBook in action.
- MdBook is actively maintained and has an active community of contributors.

## [Case study: Algorithmic trading with Go](https://polygon.io/blog/case-study-algorithmict-trading-with-go/)

- This case study explores the development of an automated retail trading bot using the programming language Go.
- The bot is capable of monitoring the entire stock market in real-time and making quick trading decisions.
- The study provides insights into the challenges faced, the solution implemented, and key lessons learned during the development process.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36539235)

- The post discusses the author's experience building an algorithmic trading system using Go, emphasizing the importance of a solid platform for strategy implementation.
- The post raises questions about the allocation of top talent to fintech and advertising rather than socially beneficial endeavors, highlighting the susceptibility of the trading industry to scams.
- The benefits of using Go for algorithmic trading are showcased, despite it not being the most widely used language, and the importance of risk management and the limitations of individual trading strategies are discussed.

## [How the great firewall of China detects and blocks fully encrypted traffic [pdf]](https://gfw.report/publications/usenixsecurity23/data/paper/paper.pdf)

- The article explores algorithmic trading with Go and provides practical insights into its development and implementation.
- The author discusses the challenges and complexities of algorithmic trading, including managing risk and understanding market jargon.
- The impact of high-frequency trading (HFT) on the market is discussed, highlighting its benefits in terms of liquidity provision and cost reduction, as well as the importance of competition among exchanges and market participants.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36531485)

- The Great Firewall of China is capable of detecting and blocking fully encrypted traffic, including VPNs.
- The Chinese government enforces strict surveillance and control over its citizens' online activities, with a crackdown on unauthorized VPN services.
- Researchers and developers are constantly innovating circumvention tools and techniques to bypass the GFW's control and monitoring efforts.

## [File for divorce from LLVM](https://github.com/ziglang/zig/issues/16270)

- The proposal suggests removing LLVM, Clang, and LLD libraries from the Zig project.
- Zig plans to implement its own optimization passes and attract contributions from chip manufacturers to improve machine code.
- While the removal of C++ compilation capabilities may impact some projects, Zig aims to have a contributor-friendly IR and a more lightweight compiler binary.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36529456)

- The Zig programming language is considering moving away from its dependency on LLVM, which has raised concerns among users.
- Some users believe that removing support for C++ and Objective-C in Zig could hinder its popularity and adoption.
- There are concerns about the potential loss of performance and the resources required to build and maintain a new compiler backend for Zig if it moves away from LLVM.

## [Microwaved plastic containers release microplastics into food](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.est.3c01942)

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36532812)

- Microwaved plastic containers release microplastics into food, which can have negative effects on human health.
- Plastics labeled as "safe" or "BPA-free" may still contain harmful substances, as over 50 different chemicals are used as alternatives to BPA.
- Glass containers are a safer alternative for storing and heating food, as they do not release microplastics and are durable and easy to clean.


