---
localized_date: July 14, 2023
top_news: Disney, Netflix, and more are fighting FTC's 'click to cancel' proposal
---



## July 14, 2023

### [Disney, Netflix, and more are fighting FTC's 'click to cancel' proposal](https://www.businessinsider.com/hollywood-streamers-oppose-ftc-proposal-regulation-click-to-cancel-subscription-2023-7)

- Disney, Netflix, and other companies are opposing the FTC's proposal to implement a "click to cancel" feature for subscription services.
- The proposed feature would make it easier for consumers to cancel their subscriptions online without having to call customer service.
- Some argue that this proposal could benefit consumers by providing more control and transparency, while others argue that it could lead to decreased revenue for companies.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36706138)

- Disney, Netflix, and other companies are opposing the FTC's "click to cancel" proposal, which aims to make it easier for customers to cancel subscriptions.
- Countries like Turkey, Germany, and the Netherlands already have laws requiring easy cancellation of subscriptions.
- Customers are frustrated with companies that make it difficult to cancel subscriptions, and there is a need for clearer regulations to protect consumer rights.

### [Passkeys will come at a cost](https://fy.blackhats.net.au/blog/2023-02-02-how-hype-will-turn-your-security-key-into-junk/)

- The hype around "passkeys" could render security keys obsolete and useless.
- Resident keys, which store private keys in the security key itself, are being heavily promoted as the preferred type of authenticator.
- Using resident keys for passkeys can quickly fill up the limited storage space in security keys, leading to a poor user experience and limitations on device choice.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36712497)

- Passkeys are a replacement for passwords and offer faster, easier, and more secure sign-ins to websites and apps.
- The article highlights the confusing user experience of Google's passkey-based authentication system on Android devices.
- The limitations of storage capacity on hardware tokens like YubiKeys are discussed.

### [Thunderbird 115 "Supernova"](https://blog.thunderbird.net/2023/07/our-fastest-most-beautiful-release-ever-thunderbird-115-supernova-is-here/)

- Thunderbird 115 "Supernova" is a major update to the Thunderbird email client for Linux, macOS, and Windows.
- It introduces a modernized and visually appealing card view for the message list, along with a new Thunderbird logo and a dynamic unified toolbar.
- Other notable features include an improved calendar design, customizable folder modes, eye-catching tags view, and better accessibility throughout the application.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36703474)

- Thunderbird 115 "Supernova" has been released, claiming to be the fastest version ever.
- Users express skepticism about the performance claim, citing past issues and the use of JavaScript.
- Users discuss Thunderbird's advantages, such as cross-platform compatibility and extensibility.

### [Simpsons Hit and Run source code (2003)](https://github.com/Svxy/The-Simpsons-Hit-and-Run)

- The source code for the video game "The Simpsons: Hit & Run" from 2003 has been uploaded, including additional assets and scripts.
- The source code is available for download in the releases tab and on MEGA.
- The "documents/" folder, which contains private information about the game's development team, has not been included in the upload.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36703711)

- The code for the 2003 video game "The Simpsons Hit & Run" has been leaked on GitHub by user Svxy.
- The game was highly praised for its love for the series and fun gameplay.
- The code is readable and well-commented, providing a good study of production code.

### [Boston mayor announces residential conversion program for office buildings](https://www.bostonplans.org/news-calendar/news-updates/2023/07/10/mayor-wu-announces-residential-conversion-program)

- Boston Mayor Michelle Wu has announced a residential conversion program for downtown office buildings.
- The program aims to incentivize the conversion of underutilized office buildings into residential units to meet the city's housing needs and support downtown businesses.
- Owners of commercial office buildings will be offered reduced property tax rates in exchange for converting their buildings into residential spaces.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36715504)

- Boston mayor announces residential conversion program for office buildings, offering tax incentives to building owners to convert office space to residential space.
- Converting office buildings into residential spaces is complex and may require structural changes.
- The success of the program depends on the details, implementation, and feasibility of conversions based on zoning laws and regulations.

### [Founder of crypto lender Celsius Network arrested, charged with fraud](https://www.reuters.com/markets/us-sec-sues-celsius-network-its-founder-2023-07-13/)

- Alex Mashinsky, founder of Celsius Network, has pleaded not guilty to fraud charges related to allegations of misleading customers and artificially inflating the value of his company's cryptocurrency token.

- Mashinsky is one of several crypto industry figures to be indicted on fraud charges, contributing to the industry's overall reputation. The collapse of other companies in the industry, such as FTX, has also added to the industry's challenges.

- The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), along with other regulatory agencies, has sued Mashinsky and Celsius, accusing them of raising billions of dollars through the sale of unregistered crypto securities and misleading investors about the company's financial state.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36710558)

- The founder of crypto lender Celsius Network has been arrested and charged with fraud, involving allegations of market manipulation and fraudulent activities related to the crypto industry.
- The charges include wire fraud and misrepresentations to customers about the safety of their investments, bringing attention to the importance of following securities regulations and raising questions about the future of the crypto industry.
- The discussion also covers the involvement of regulatory agencies, the challenges and risks associated with cryptocurrencies, and the need for discernment and critical thinking when evaluating new technologies and investment opportunities.

### [The FCC responds to my ATSC 3 encryption complaint – they want to hear from you](https://blog.lon.tv/2023/07/10/the-fcc-responds-to-my-atsc-3-encryption-complaint-they-want-to-hear-from-you/)

- The FCC is asking for comments on a petition regarding the encryption of ATSC 3 signals.
- The petition argues against DRM encryption, stating that it restricts access to over-the-air television and creates unnecessary barriers for consumers.
- Consumers are encouraged to submit their own comments to the FCC to express their concerns about the impact of DRM encryption on accessing broadcasts.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36713037)

- The FCC is considering allowing encryption on ATSC 3 broadcasts, which has sparked a debate about the public's access to free over-the-air television.
- Critics argue that encryption would restrict access to public spectrum and turn broadcast television into a subscription service.
- Encryption is seen as a means for broadcasters to protect their retransmission fees and control content distribution.

### [Brute-forcing a macOS user's real name from a browser using mDNS](https://fingerprint.com/blog/apple-macos-mdns-brute-force/)

- This article discusses a technique that can reveal a macOS user's first name without their permission using the mDNS protocol.
- The exploit relies on the multicast DNS (mDNS) protocol, which is widely used on Apple devices as part of the Apple Bonjour feature.
- The proof of concept demo showed that this technique can detect a macOS user's name correctly in 65% of cases on average.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36712788)

- The article discusses a method of brute-forcing a macOS user's real name from a browser using mDNS.
- Users in the comments discuss the use of Little Snitch software to control network requests and prevent unwanted connections.
- Some commenters suggest changing device names and using privacy-focused software to protect against potential privacy breaches.

### [It's official: Smartphones will need to have replaceable batteries by 2027](https://www.androidauthority.com/phones-with-replaceable-batteries-2027-3345155/)

- The European Council has officially agreed to a new regulation that requires all smartphones released in the EU to have replaceable batteries by 2027.
- The law aims to create a circular economy for batteries, where resources are recycled and reused as much as possible.
- Manufacturers will need time to redesign their products to meet the new requirements, and it will take several years before we see smartphones with replaceable batteries at scale.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36712894)

- Starting in 2027, all smartphones released in the EU must have user-replaceable batteries, reducing electronic waste and lowering consumer costs by allowing battery replacement instead of replacing the entire device.
- The law applies to all products incorporating portable batteries, not just smartphones, and does not specify trade-offs in terms of water resistance or device size, allowing for innovation in battery design.
- Apple's current requirements for iPhone battery replacements may not meet the new standards, and the regulation also requires manufacturers to sell replacement batteries for a reasonable price for at least five years, ensuring genuine replacement parts are available.

### [B.C. government hit tweet limit amid wildfire evacuations](https://www.vancouverisawesome.com/highlights/bc-government-hit-tweet-limit-amid-wildfire-evacuations-7268169)

- The B.C. government's DriveBC Twitter account reached its tweet limit while sharing crucial information about wildfire evacuations, raising concerns about relying on social media during emergencies.
- Twitter's new posting limits have also affected other jurisdictions, leading some agencies to cut off their use of Twitter as a source of critical information.
- The limitations on social media platforms like Twitter highlight the importance of having alternative, more reliable methods of communication during emergencies, especially in larger population centers.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36708550)

- The BC government's tweet limit during wildfire evacuations raises concerns about the reliability of social media during emergencies.
- Experts suggest that governments should set up their own social media servers using open protocols to avoid relying on proprietary infrastructure like Twitter.
- Alternative communication channels, such as government websites, SMS, and traditional media, should be utilized alongside social media platforms for disseminating emergency information.

</Steps>
