---
localized_date: July 19, 2023
top_news: Llama 2
---

# 2023-07-19

## [Llama 2](https://ai.meta.com/llama/)

- Llama 2 is the next generation of an open-source large language model that is available for free for research and commercial use.
- It outperforms other open-source language models on external benchmarks in reasoning, coding, proficiency, and knowledge tests.
- There are resources available, such as a responsible use guide and a community forum, to promote responsible and collaborative AI innovation.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36774627)

- The release of Llama 2, an updated version of the Llama language model that surpasses GPT-3.5 in performance.
- OpenAI is under scrutiny for potentially training their models on benchmarks, leading to overfitting and incorrect rankings.
- Llama 2 can be used for various tasks and has generated excitement among tech enthusiasts and developers.

## [Firefox has surpassed Chrome on Speedometer](https://treeherder.mozilla.org/perfherder/graphs?timerange=31536000&series=mozilla-central,3735773,1,13&series=mozilla-central,3412459,1,13)

- Firefox has recently overtaken Chrome in terms of speed on a benchmark called Speedometer.
- Speedometer is a tool used to measure the performance of web browsers.
- This is exciting news because it shows that Firefox has made significant improvements in its speed and performance, making it a viable alternative to Chrome for users who value speed.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36770883)

- Firefox has surpassed Chrome in terms of speed on the Speedometer benchmark, attracting users who value superior functionality and performance under high load.
- Firefox offers features like the Tree Style Tab extension for better tab management and organization, making it popular among users with many tabs open.
- Firefox is trusted for password storage and management due to features like containers and secure password generation, although some users recommend using dedicated password managers for additional control and security.

## [Refusing to teach kids math will not improve equity](https://www.noahpinion.blog/p/refusing-to-teach-kids-math-will)

- "Progressive" approaches to math education, such as delaying the teaching of subjects like algebra, are being implemented in some places like California and Cambridge, Massachusetts.
- The idea behind public education is to provide all children with essential skills, like reading, writing, and math, to promote educational equity and economic growth.
- Restricting access to advanced math classes in public schools will result in unequal opportunities for students, reinforcing existing inequalities and weakening the goal of equity. Instead, investing in teaching math to disadvantaged students can help promote equity and improve their educational outcomes.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36774940)

- The article discusses the importance of teaching kids more math instead of teaching them less, highlighting the need for differentiated learning and accelerated education.
- The conversation in the comments section includes discussions on the impact of DEI programs and the future of education with advancements in AI.
- Critics argue that the new math framework in the US is based on the belief in achieving equal outcomes for all students, leading to the exclusion of advanced math courses like calculus from high school curriculums.

## [Stable Diffusion WebGPU demo](https://islamov.ai/stable-diffusion-webgpu/)

- The "Stable Diffusion WebGPU demo" requires the latest version of Chrome with specific flags enabled.
- The demo runs on the CPU and is not yet optimized for multi-threading or GPU acceleration, which affects its performance.
- The code for the demo is available on GitHub, and the developer plans to make a pull request for GPU acceleration in the future.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36766523)

- The MLC team has developed a stable diffusion model that is even more impressive and performant than previous approaches.
- Some developers have explored alternative frameworks like Rust + WebGPU and GGML for running large language models.
- The use of WebGPU and WebAssembly allows for running computationally intensive AI models directly in the browser with minimal technical knowledge and hardware limitations.

## [Sweden Sans](https://identity.sweden.se/en/design-elements/typography)

- The primary typeface used in Sweden's brand communications is Sweden Sans, which was inspired by old signages system in Sweden and designed for accessibility, simplicity, and consistency.
- Noto Sans is the alternative and supporting typeface used when Sweden Sans cannot be used, especially for non-roman languages and special characters.
- Arial is the fallback typeface used when neither Sweden Sans nor Noto Sans is available.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36775398)

- Sweden Sans is a typeface created by the design agency Söderhavet for use in representing Sweden abroad.
- The font is part of a larger branding effort by the Swedish Institute to promote Sweden's image to foreigners.
- The design guidelines for Sweden Sans provide instructions on when and how to use the font.

## [A Grub theme in the style of Minecraft](https://github.com/Lxtharia/minegrub-theme)

- This post introduces Minegrub, a Grub theme inspired by Minecraft.
- It provides installation instructions for users to set up Minegrub on their systems.
- The post also explains how to customize splash texts and adjust the bottom bar height.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36771980)

- A Grub theme in the style of Minecraft has been developed.
- Grub is a common bootloader for Linux systems that allows users to select which operating system to boot.
- The theme includes a screenshot in the README file.

## [A few things to know before stealing my 914 (2022)](https://www.hagerty.com/media/advice/a-few-things-to-know-before-you-steal-my-914/)

- The author of the post shares humorous advice to someone attempting to steal a Porsche 914, highlighting the various challenges and quirks of the car.
- The post describes the car's mechanical issues, such as disconnected battery, frozen parking brake, worn ignition switch tumblers, and weak starter.
- The author also explains the challenges of shifting gears in the car, as well as issues with the fuel gauge, lights, and ventilation.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36767092)

- The author discusses their experience with an old car, a 914 from the 1990s, highlighting the joys and challenges of owning it.
- The article sparks a debate among readers about the safety of old cars versus modern vehicles and the ethics of driving an unsafe vehicle on public roads.
- The author's background in automotive engineering and ownership of dysfunctional automobiles adds credibility and depth to the article.

## [Val, a high-level systems programming language](https://www.val-lang.dev/)

- Val is a high-level systems programming language that aims to be fast, safe, and simple.
- Val leverages mutable value semantics and generic programming to avoid unnecessary memory allocations and ensure memory safety and type safety.
- Val's focus on mutable value semantics sets it apart from other programming languages and allows for efficient, generic code.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36778566)

- Val is a high-level systems programming language that aims to be a successor to C++.
- Val features statically compiled, statically typed, memory safe, typesafe, and data-race-free characteristics.
- Val eliminates the use of pointers and references, relying on const reference and return value optimization instead.

## [Lazydocker: a lazier way to manage everything Docker](https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazydocker)

- Lazydocker is a terminal UI tool that helps manage Docker and Docker-compose in a simpler and more efficient way.
- It allows users to easily view the state of containers, view logs, restart and rebuild containers, and customize metrics.
- Lazydocker aims to make Docker management easier by providing a single terminal window with all the necessary information and commands.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36778905)

- Lazydocker is a tool that provides a user-friendly interface for managing Docker
- Users can easily explore the current state of their system and perform simple actions
- Lazydocker is popular among developers and provides a more convenient way to work with Docker compared to command-line tools like docker-compose and docker commands.

## [Medicine is plagued by untrustworthy clinical trials](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-023-02299-w)

- A significant number of clinical trials in the field of medicine may be faked or flawed, according to investigations.
- These "zombie" trials, which are studies that appear to be legitimate but contain flawed or fabricated data, can have serious consequences as they can be included in meta-analyses and systematic reviews, which influence medical guidelines and treatment decisions.
- Efforts are being made to address this issue, including implementing trustworthiness checks for trials and advocating for journals to require the sharing of raw data from authors. However, more work is needed to ensure the integrity of clinical trials and improve the quality of medical research.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36770624)

- Around a quarter of clinical trials in medicine are flawed or potentially fake, leading to unreliable results and potentially harmful treatments.
- The lack of transparency, reproducibility, and accountability in scientific research is a significant concern.
- Establishing an independent advisory organization and implementing open science practices, including the release of raw data, are potential solutions to improve the trustworthiness of clinical trials and scientific research.


