---
localized_date: July 20, 2023
top_news: Kevin Mitnick has died
---

# 2023-07-20

## [Kevin Mitnick has died](https://www.dignitymemorial.com/obituaries/las-vegas-nv/kevin-mitnick-11371668)

- Renowned cybersecurity expert Kevin Mitnick has passed away after a battle with pancreatic cancer.
- Mitnick was known for his hacking skills and the "FREE KEVIN" movement that emerged in the 1990s.
- His impact on the cybersecurity community and inspiration to many is being remembered and celebrated.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36795173)

- Kevin Mitnick, a legendary hacker, has passed away at the age of 57 due to pancreatic cancer.
- Mitnick's hacking skills and social engineering techniques inspired many in the industry and paved the way for modern cybersecurity practices.
- His books, such as "The Art of Deception" and "Ghost in the Wires," are recommended reads for those interested in hacking and cybersecurity.

## [Stanford president resigns over manipulated research, will retract 3 papers](https://stanforddaily.com/2023/07/19/stanford-president-resigns-over-manipulated-research-will-retract-at-least-3-papers/)

- Stanford President Marc Tessier-Lavigne will resign and retract or issue corrections to at least three papers due to manipulated research data.
- The investigation found instances of manipulation in Tessier-Lavigne's neuroscientific research, spanning labs at three separate institutions.
- Retracting papers is rare, indicating the seriousness of the findings. This case highlights the importance of upholding scientific integrity in research.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36790301)

- Stanford president resigns after investigation finds manipulated research data in multiple scientific papers.
- Student journalist Theo Baker exposes the manipulated data and wins a Polk Award for his work.
- Case highlights the importance of integrity, ethics, and oversight in academia.

## [Advanced Python Mastery](https://github.com/dabeaz-course/python-mastery)

- 'Advanced Python Mastery' is an exercise-driven course on advanced Python programming written by David Beazley, a renowned author in the field.
- The course is designed for Python programmers who want to go beyond short scripts and learn programming techniques used in popular libraries and frameworks.
- The course provides detailed presentation slides, exercises, solutions, and supplemental materials, and is best suited for individuals with prior Python knowledge and a Python development environment.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36785005)

- Advanced Python Mastery is a now-CC-licensed 4-day Python training course that has been iterated on for 16 years.
- David Beazley, the author, is well-known for his popular Python tutorials and tech talks.
- Some Discussion Service commenters highly recommend Beazley's other resources, such as his book "Python Essential Reference" and his online immersive courses.

## [Children of alumni no longer have admissions edge at Carnegie Mellon, Pitt](https://triblive.com/news/children-relatives-of-alumni-no-longer-have-admissions-edge-at-carnegie-mellon-pitt/)

- Carnegie Mellon University and the University of Pittsburgh have decided to no longer give preferential treatment to students who have family members who attended the schools, known as legacies.
- The change in policy is a departure from the long-standing tradition of elite universities giving an admissions edge to children of alumni.
- This decision comes in the wake of the Supreme Court ruling that colleges can no longer consider a student's race in admissions decisions, which has sparked debate about fairness and equity in the admissions process.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36788274)

- Carnegie Mellon and Pitt have decided to eliminate preferential treatment for the children of alumni in admissions.
- Legacy admissions have been seen as perpetuating privilege and contradicting the ideals of meritocracy.
- The debate surrounding legacy admissions intersects with discussions on affirmative action and the broader questions of equality of opportunity and the purpose of higher education.

## [ASUS to manufacture and sell Intel's NUC products](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/newsroom/news/intel-nuc-systems-agreement.html)

- Intel has agreed to a partnership with ASUS, a technology solution provider, to manufacture, sell, and support Intel's Next Unit of Compute (NUC) systems product line.
- This collaboration is important because it allows Intel to focus on enabling ecosystem partners to continue innovation and growth in the NUC systems market.
- ASUS's expertise in delivering mini PCs and their commitment to excellent support and service make them well-suited to carry forward the NUC systems product line and expand into areas such as AI and AIoT.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36781248)

- ASUS will manufacture and sell Intel's NUC products, indicating profitability of Intel's NUC line.
- NUCs are popular due to their affordability, low power consumption, and excellent Linux support, making them reliable for specific use cases.
- Users discuss their positive experiences with NUCs, including running home automation systems, self-hosting, and using them as mini home servers.

## [Senators to Propose Ban on U.S. Lawmakers, Executive Branch Members Owning Stock](https://www.wsj.com/articles/senators-to-propose-ban-on-u-s-lawmakers-executive-branch-members-owning-stock-6db6411)

- Two U.S. senators are introducing a bipartisan bill to prevent government officials and lawmakers from owning individual company stocks.
- This proposed legislation aims to prevent conflicts of interest and promote public trust in the government.
- Recent polling shows strong public support for such a measure.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36785467)

- Senators are proposing a ban on U.S. lawmakers and executive branch members owning stocks to address potential conflicts of interest.
- Critics argue that the ban alone won't solve the problem and call for additional measures, such as jury duty-like selection processes for politicians.
- There is debate over whether lawmakers should be allowed to trade stocks at all, with suggestions of decriminalizing insider trading and exploring other countries' restrictions.

## [Bookwyrm – A federated social network for reading books](https://joinbookwyrm.com/)

- BookWyrm is a collaborative software that helps people share and discuss books.
- It is maintained by Mouse Reeve, who is dedicated to offering an alternative to corporate platforms.
- To support the development of BookWyrm, you can contribute to their Patreon page.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36785285)

- Bookwyrm is a federated social network for reading books, allowing users to share book lists, reviews, and recommendations in a decentralized manner.
- The UI of Bookwyrm has been praised for its user-friendly and intuitive design.
- Bookwyrm offers an anti-corporate and federated approach to book social networks, providing an alternative to centralized platforms like Goodreads.

## Twenty.com (YC S23) – Open-source CRM

- The post is about the launch of Twenty.com, an open-source CRM (Customer Relationship Management) software.
- Twenty.com is part of the Y Combinator's S23 batch, which is known for supporting and funding startups.
- The software aims to help businesses manage and improve their relationships with customers.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36791434)

- Twenty.com is a new open-source CRM aiming to provide a better user experience for small companies and address the limitations of existing CRM systems.
- The CRM is built with Typescript, React, and NestJS with GraphQL and offers a hosted version for monetization.
- The open-source nature of Twenty.com and its potential to disrupt the CRM market with a community-led effort have garnered attention from tech-savvy readers.

## [Netscape and Sun announce JavaScript (1995)](https://web.archive.org/web/20070916144913/https://wp.netscape.com/newsref/pr/newsrelease67.html)

- Netscape and Sun Microsystems announced the release of JavaScript, an open, cross-platform object scripting language for creating and customizing applications on enterprise networks and the Internet.
- JavaScript complements Java and is designed for use by HTML page authors and enterprise application developers to script the behavior of objects running on both clients and servers.
- 28 industry-leading companies have endorsed JavaScript as an open standard object scripting language and plan to integrate it into future products.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36782761)

- JavaScript is a scripting language that allows developers to create interactive and dynamic web applications.
- The introduction of JavaScript opened up possibilities for dynamic web applications, such as intelligent forms and multimedia applets.
- JavaScript has played a significant role in the development of web technologies and has become widely adopted by developers.

## [A glitch in the SEO matrix](https://www.izzy.co/blogs/a-glitch-in-the-seo-matrix.html)

- A glitch in the SEO matrix has been discovered where a specific keyword related to open-source software for big data management is generating a high volume of searches but has limited content to match.
- The keyword originated from a popular Cisco Introduction to IoT course and has caused an influx of low-quality blog posts trying to rank for it.
- The problem with this SEO craze is that the search intent of users is not being met, as they only need a simple answer to their question, not lengthy jargon-filled articles.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36788813)

- The current state of search engine optimization (SEO) is criticized for prioritizing revenue over user experience and search quality.
- Ad-based search engines are incentivized to drive traffic to websites with ads, leading to cluttered search results and low-quality content.
- Alternatives to ad-based search engines and SEO-focused websites are emerging, highlighting the need for improvements in search algorithms and a reevaluation of the ad-based monetization model.
