---
localized_date: July 24, 2023
top_news: Man found guilty of child porn because he ran a Tor exit node
---

## July 24, 2023

### [Man found guilty of child porn because he ran a Tor exit node](https://lowendbox.com/blog/man-found-guilty-of-child-porn-because-he-ran-a-tor-exit-node-the-story-of-william-weber/)

- William Weber, a member of the LowEndTalk community, is found guilty of supporting the transfer of underage pornography because he ran a Tor exit node.
- The case highlights the moral argument surrounding decentralized internet and the responsibility of those running exit nodes.
- William Weber claims that he ran the exit nodes to support freedom of information and provide uncensored access to the internet. He was charged with distribution and potential production of child pornography and received a sentence of 5 years probation.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36837273)

- A man was found guilty of possessing child pornography because he ran a Tor exit node.
- Concerns about corruption and bribes in the web hosting industry.
- Debate surrounding the safety and reliability of VPN services and their potential cooperation with law enforcement.

### [All foster kids in California can now attend any state college for free](https://themessenger.com/news/all-foster-kids-in-california-can-now-attend-any-state-college-for-free)

- Children and teens in foster care in California can now attend state and community colleges for free under new legislation.
- The Fostering Futures program will allocate $25 million to cover tuition, housing, books, and food for foster youth attending California State University, University of California, or community college.
- The bill aims to make higher education more accessible for foster youth, who currently have a low college graduation rate, and provide them with hope and opportunities for the future.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36839983)

- Foster kids in California can now attend any state college for free, which is a positive step towards equal access to education.
- There is debate over the impact of Proposition 13 on the state's educational budget and whether college sports should be prioritized over education.
- The cost of higher education has increased over time, putting a financial burden on many families, and there is a need for effective allocation of public funds to ensure value for taxpayers.

### [Llama2.c: Inference llama 2 in one file of pure C](https://github.com/karpathy/llama2.c)

- A new code allows the inference of a Llama 2 model in pure C, providing a simple and minimal approach.
- The code can be used to train the Llama 2 LLM architecture in PyTorch and then save the weights to a raw binary file.
- The code is a weekend project and not intended for production-grade use, but it offers an exciting opportunity to run reasonably sized models with interactive rates.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36838051)

- The Llama2.c project is gaining attention on Hacker News.
- The developer is training a bigger 44M Llama model, with the goal of reaching the 7B Llama model.
- Commenters discuss the use of smaller LLMs and potential performance optimizations, such as using GPUs or different optimization levels.

### [Icon Buddy – 100K+ Open Source SVG Icons, Fully Customizable](https://iconbuddy.app/)

- Icon Buddy is a website that offers over 100,000 open-source icons that can be customized and edited.
- There are more than 120 high-quality open-source icon sets available on this website.
- The website provides icons in various formats including SVG, PNG, WEBP, JSX, VUE, and more, making it convenient for users to download icons in their preferred format.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36837442)

- Users are disappointed with the lack of licensing information for the icons on Icon Buddy, making it difficult to know if they can be used legally.
- Some users suggest that the icons may have been sourced from various places without proper verification, raising concerns about potential trademark issues.
- Users appreciate the ability to customize the colors of the icons on Icon Buddy, but some feel that the site should also provide information about the source of each icon.

### [Toyota has been developing a solid-state battery for EVs with a range of 745mi](https://www.topspeed.com/toyota-745-mile-solid-state-battery/)

- Toyota has been developing a solid-state battery for electric vehicles (EVs) with a range of 745 miles and a charge time of 10 minutes, which could revolutionize the industry.
- This breakthrough in EV batteries eliminates the need for frequent charging stops during long trips and provides EVs with the same driving range as traditional vehicles.
- Toyota, known for its focus on hydrogen cars, seems to be shifting its approach to the post-ICE future by investing in EV technologies.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36833836)

- Toyota is developing a solid-state battery for electric vehicles with a range of 745 miles, which could address concerns around range anxiety and charging time.
- Current battery technology is a key barrier to widespread EV adoption, and Toyota's approach to battery development and focus on solid-state technology are of interest to the tech-savvy community.
- There is a debate about the sustainability of batteries and the potential need for a switch to hydrogen-powered cars in the future, and Toyota's focus on hydrogen vehicles may be due to concerns about the supply chain and carbon footprint of lithium-based electric cars.

### [I found an IT job thanks to this blog](https://giuliomagnifico.blog/misc/2023/07/22/I-found-a-IT-job-thanks-to-this-blog.html)

- The author of the blog post shares their experience of how they landed a job in the IT industry through networking and showcasing their skills and passion.
- The author explains their role as a DevOps/SysAdmin in their current company, where they work on building and monitoring network datacenters using Grafana and Prometheus.
- They provide screenshots of the monitoring system they have implemented using Raspberry Pis, highlighting its low power consumption and customizable features.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36833089)

- The issue of employers prioritizing credentials over practical skills and abilities affects not only those without computer science degrees but also developers who have worked at small startups.
- Building open source projects or products to showcase skills can be challenging and time-consuming, creating a vicious cycle of constantly proving one's worth.
- The value of small startup experience versus large-scale project experience is a matter of debate, as both have their advantages and can impact career growth differently.
- Getting hired at a big tech company may require demonstrating specific knowledge and experience related to handling scale and guiding projects across departments.
- Experience in the 10-100 developer range can be extremely valuable, offering opportunities to learn the big picture and strategic considerations behind different functions.
- Referrals and direct communication with hiring managers can increase the chances of overcoming the lack of context surrounding past experience.
- LeetCode-style interviews can be advantageous for determining a candidate's ability to handle code and infrastructure scalability, which is not easily gained through personal projects.
- The prevalence of leetCode-style interviews may vary depending on the job market, with FAANG positions in Europe being less of a deal-breaker.
- Small blogs and personal projects can actually play a significant role in getting job offers, as they serve as proof of recent relevant activities and expertise.
- The Italian job market is still dominated by traditional hiring practices and personal connections, but there are signs of change and a growing appreciation for practical skills and abilities.
- Networking and establishing personal connections with people in the industry can lead to opportunities.
- Using a blog to showcase knowledge and expertise can provide an advantage in the job market, even if readership is low.
- Open source and blogging have had a significant impact on the tech industry, facilitating knowledge sharing, collaboration, and freedom of choice.
- The fast pace of ever-changing technologies can be overwhelming, and it's important to strike a balance between staying up to date and focusing on practical skills and experience.
- The Italian job market presents challenges, but with the right strategies and a focus on networking and showcasing abilities, individuals can find success.
- Second-hand enterprise hardware can be a cost-effective alternative to consumer-grade products for building server setups.
- Concerns about Raspberry Pi reliability and the potential for SD card failures can be mitigated by using higher quality SD cards or alternative storage options.
- Blogging can be a valuable tool for career advancement and showcasing expertise.
- Opportunities for job offers and projects can arise from personal blogs and open source contributions.
- Establishing a strong online presence and reputation can open doors for career opportunities.
- The importance of maintaining a balance between technical skills and other important qualities such as willingness to learn, curiosity, and integrity.
- The Italian job market's heavy reliance on personal connections and credentials can limit opportunities for individuals without traditional qualifications.
- Overcoming the challenges of the Italian job market may require actively pursuing networking opportunities and building a strong professional reputation.
- Italian politicians' short-sightedness and lack of vision contribute to the challenges faced by job seekers in the country.
- Secondhand enterprise hardware can be purchased from online platforms like eBay or local salvage outlets.
- The use of distribution lists or aliases for email alerts can improve organization and make it easier to identify the source of alerts.
- Transitioning from a hobbyist setup to business-grade infrastructure may require considering redundancy and reliability measures.

### [I made a MailChimp alternative that connects to your database](https://cc.dev)

- cc.dev is a MailChimp alternative that allows you to connect your database and target your audience directly using SQL queries.
- You can send high-quality marketing emails at a fraction of the usual cost using cc.dev's straightforward tools and templates.
- cc.dev also integrates with AWS Simple Email Service (SES) and offers features such as creating email templates and converting plain English queries to SQL.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36836596)

- The product is a MailChimp alternative called cc.dev.
- It connects directly to the user's database and allows them to write SQL queries to target their audience for email marketing.
- The product is backed by AWS SES, which reduces the cost of sending emails. It also includes features such as a template builder, media management, and campaign monitoring.

### [Simple Sabotage Field Manual – How to Destroy Your Organizations](https://butwhatfor.beehiiv.com/p/simple-sabotage-field-manual-destroy-organizations)

- The Simple Sabotage Field Manual was a guide created by the OSS during WWII to train individuals in German-occupied territories how to sabotage their workplaces and hinder the German war effort.
- The manual outlined various tactics for simple sabotage that did not require destructive tools but instead relied on making faulty decisions and creating a non-cooperative atmosphere.
- The manual has been declassified and serves as a reminder of the importance of efficiency and collaboration in organizations, highlighting behaviors that should be avoided to prevent dysfunction.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36831946)

- The article discusses the "Simple Sabotage Field Manual" that was used during World War II to guide individuals on how to disrupt organizations.
- The tactics described in the manual, such as insisting on doing everything through "channels" and haggling over precise wordings, are reminiscent of common behaviors in real organizations.
- Some readers find the article to be satirical and criticize these practices, while others see similarities between the manual's tactics and workplace dynamics.

### [A Romanian economist legally gamed the lottery](https://thehustle.co/the-man-who-won-the-lottery-14-times/)

- A Romanian economist named Stefan Mandel developed a system to legally "game" the lottery by buying every possible combination, allowing him to win multiple jackpots and smaller prizes.
- Mandel's method involved analyzing probability papers and developing a number-picking algorithm that reduced the number of combinations needed to increase his odds of winning.
- Mandel and his team successfully won several lotteries in Australia and the United States, but his strategy attracted negative attention and eventually led to changes in lottery laws to prevent others from replicating his method.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36834415)

- The Romanian economist used a legal method to win the lottery by creating an algorithm to calculate all possible combinations of numbers.
- The economist took a big gamble, as there was no guaranteed profit and a chance of large losses.
- Lotteries may consider publishing the number of tickets sold to attract more buyers but may deter others once the numbers are no longer published.

### [I made a customizable iOS browser for minimalists and myself](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/quiche-browser/id1668363952)

- Quiche Browser is a customizable web browser for iPhone that lets users personalize their browsing experience.
- Users can optimize the toolbar by selecting and arranging the buttons they use most frequently.
- The latest version of Quiche Browser (1.1) allows it to be set as the default browser on iPhone.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36834732)

- The developer created a customizable iOS browser with a range of customization options.
- Users can customize the toolbar, button layout, and address bar placement to suit their preferences.
- The browser supports features like content blockers, reader mode, and iPad support.


