---
slug: '/2023/12/04'
---

# 2023-12-04

## [LLM Visualization Home: Unlocking the Power of Visualizing Master of Laws Data](https://bbycroft.net/llm)

- "LLM Visualization Home" is a platform dedicated to visualizing data and information related to LLM (Master of Laws).
- The website aims to provide visual representations and insights into LLM programs, trends, and statistics.
- Users can access interactive visualizations and explore various aspects of LLM data to gain a better understanding of the field.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38507672)

- The post "LLM Visualization" by jonbaer on bbycroft.net has gained 942 points in the last 18 hours.
- A comment was made by dang 11 hours ago, but the comments have been relocated to a separate page.
- The author of the post is recognized as a respected submitter on Hacker News.

## [Exploring Modern JavaScript Frameworks: Building One to Understand Key Concepts](https://nolanlawson.com/2023/12/02/lets-learn-how-modern-javascript-frameworks-work-by-building-one/)

- The author explores modern JavaScript frameworks and their shared foundational concepts like reactivity and cloned templates.
- They explain the use of cloneNode to optimize performance and introduce other modern JavaScript APIs like Proxy.
- The author discusses the process of creating a reactive system and DOM rendering, offering suggestions for improvement and comparing different framework approaches. They also highlight the benefits of their own framework.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38510209)

- React and other JavaScript frameworks only update the modified component and its children when rebuilding the virtual DOM, dispelling misconceptions about full DOM updates.
- The use of useMemo and React.memo can prevent unnecessary rerendering of child components, optimizing performance.
- The discussion in the forum explores the features and limitations of Svelte, as well as topics like server-side rendering, state charts, and the complexity of modern JavaScript frameworks. Alternative frameworks like RxJS, RiotJS, and Ember.js are also mentioned.

## [Side Projects That Got You Hired: Share Your Success Stories!](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38511280)

- The person is asking community members to share projects that have helped them secure a job, specifically if the project directly led to getting the job or played a role in the interview process.
- They are also interested in knowing if the project was related to the job in any way.
- Additionally, they want to find out if any companies are currently hiring.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38511280)

- Personal side projects can have a significant impact on career development and job opportunities.
- Examples are given of individuals who have secured jobs or experienced career growth through their projects.
- Sharing projects online is emphasized as an important step to gain recognition and showcase one's skills and achievements.

## [Report Phone Spam – Stop Robocallers & Text Spammers](https://reportphonespam.org/)

- The author has developed a free website that helps users identify the telecom carrier behind unsolicited phone calls or text spam.
- By reporting the abuse to the carrier, users can potentially get the spammer's service terminated.
- The aim is to assist reputable telecom carriers in disconnecting abusive customers by providing them with abuse-related information.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38507446)

- The article addresses the problem of spam calls and text messages and suggests solutions to combat them.
- The effectiveness of reporting spam to authorities and telecom carriers is questioned, and stricter penalties and enforcement are recommended.
- The discussion highlights the complicity of telecom companies, strategies for blocking spam calls, forwarding spam texts for reporting, and the challenges of phone number spoofing and tracing.

## [Lobsters Rails Project: Open-Source Codebase for lobste.rs Website](https://github.com/lobsters/lobsters)

- The Lobsters Rails Project is an open-source codebase for the website https://lobste.rs, built with Ruby on Rails and using a SQL backend.
- It is available under a permissive license, allowing others to create similar websites.
- The project welcomes contributions, bug reports, and provides instructions for setting up and managing the website.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38508282)

- Users engage in discussions about the self-promotion rules, cultural norms, and moderation practices of Lobsters and Hacker News online communities.
- The conversations often touch upon controversies, declining user participation, and the technical features of the platforms.
- Opinions on Lobsters and Hacker News vary from positive to mixed.

## [OpenAI to Buy $51M of Brain-Inspired Chips from Sam Altman-Backed Startup](https://www.wired.com/story/openai-buy-ai-chips-startup-sam-altman/)

- OpenAI, a prominent AI company, plans to purchase $51 million worth of brain-inspired chips, called neuromorphic processing units (NPUs), from Rain, a startup backed by OpenAI CEO Sam Altman.
- The deal brings attention to potential conflicts of interest arising from Altman's personal investments and his role as OpenAI CEO.
- OpenAI's investment in AI chips reflects its commitment to advancing AI technology.
- Rain's chips, based on the RISC-V open-source architecture, offer the potential for increased computing power and energy efficiency compared to current graphics chips used in AI development.
- Rain has faced challenges, including the removal of a Saudi Arabia-affiliated investor due to national security concerns.
- Rain has claimed to be in advanced talks with tech giants like Google and Microsoft for chip systems.
- The funding round for Rain was scrutinized by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), highlighting concerns about critical technology access and control.
- OpenAI may need to find partners with significant financial backing to meet its hardware needs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38506660)

- The conversations about OpenAI cover a wide range of topics, including the company's commitment to buying AI chips from a startup and concerns about conflicts of interest and transparency.
- Discussions also involve debates on maximizing shareholder value and corporate responsibility, allegations of dishonesty and abuse within OpenAI, and conversations about linguistic diversity and cultural differences.
- Other topics include speculation on investment choices and corruption, criticisms of cancel culture and media protection, debates about philanthropy and the motivations behind charitable actions, and opinions about the ethics of separating personal interests from professional roles.

## [The Challenges and Limitations of Using Jenkins for CI Pipelines](http://twitchard.github.io/posts/2019-06-21-life-is-too-short-for-jenkins.html)

- The author expresses dissatisfaction with using Jenkins for their CI pipeline, citing challenges with Groovy and lack of support for declarative pipelines.
- They discuss issues with permissions, artifacts, and integrating Docker containers.
- The author highlights helpful tools like the snippet generator and Github search. In a different company, they no longer have to manage CI and Jenkins as there is a dedicated team for it.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38507381)

- The discussion explores various CI tools, including Jenkins, GitLab CI, and GitHub Actions.
- Users share their opinions on the strengths and weaknesses of these tools, with criticisms of Jenkins' UI, complexity, and feature set, and praise for GitLab CI's reliability and user-friendliness.
- Other topics discussed include portable pipelines, Docker, local testing, and the challenges posed by different environments.
- The importance of user-friendly, customizable, and efficient CI tools in software development processes is emphasized.

## [Introducing Steel: A User-Friendly and High-Performing Scheme Dialect Built in Rust](https://github.com/mattwparas/steel)

- Steel is a user-friendly and high-performing scheme dialect language built in Rust.
- It has support for macros, integration with Rust functions, and built-in immutable data structures.
- The language implements higher-order contracts for design by contract and shows promising performance benchmarks compared to Python.
- The provided code demonstrates how to use the Steel virtual machine, register functions and structs, and interact with the outside world using the ExternalStruct class.
- The program is available under specific licenses and has contribution guidelines.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38508779)

- The discussion explores a wide range of topics related to programming languages, including the use of Scheme as a plugin language and debates about using Turing-complete languages for software configuration.
- The benefits and limitations of Lisp and its dialects, as well as garbage collection strategies in Rust, are discussed.
- The conversation also covers topics such as programming syntax, the use of macros, memory safety, and game engine optimization. Overall, the discussion focuses on the usefulness, adoption, and tradeoffs of various programming concepts and technologies.

## [GPT-4 Masterfully Deciphers Unnatural Scrambled Text](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.18805)

- The paper examines the ability of Large Language Models (LLMs), like GPT-4, to handle scrambled text.
- The authors introduce the Scrambled Bench, a suite to evaluate LLMs' capability in dealing with scrambled input.
- The experimental findings reveal that GPT-4 can successfully reconstruct the original sentences from scrambled text, despite the complex nature of the task.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38506140)

- The conversation centers around the capabilities and limitations of GPT-4, a language model developed by OpenAI.
- GPT-4 is capable of handling word segmentation and punctuating scrambled text, demonstrating its understanding of language.
- However, GPT-4 has imperfections and limitations, such as issues with grammar rules and tokenization, prompting suggestions to test the model with different languages and alternative models.

## [Transform JSON into discrete assignments with Gron](https://github.com/tomnomnom/gron)

- Gron is a tool that converts JSON into discrete assignments, making it simpler to search for specific values and view their paths.
- It is beneficial for exploring APIs with extensive JSON responses and inadequate documentation.
- Gron can also convert filtered data back into JSON and can be easily installed and used in conjunction with grep and other tools.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38511077)

- The discussions focus on the memory usage of the JSON parsing tool Gron and suggest alternatives like Fastgron and jq for improved efficiency.
- Advantages and limitations of Gron are deliberated, along with comparisons between different tools.
- The versatility of Gron for various tasks is also discussed, highlighting its usefulness in specific scenarios.

## [The Placeholder Girlfriend: Reflection, Revenge, and Resilience](https://parhelia.conorbarnes.com/p/the-placeholder-girlfriend)

- The narrator grapples with feeling like a temporary partner to someone they admire.
- After discovering a spreadsheet rating their performance, they consider revenge but ultimately choose self-improvement.
- The narrator confronts their girlfriend about their concerns, leading to the end of the relationship and the start of a new one.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38510997)

- The discussion revolves around various aspects of the story "The Placeholder Girlfriend," including interpretations of the ending, debates on loyalty and relationships, and critiques of clichés and believability.
- Gender portrayals in storytelling and discussions on self-improvement, personal growth, and the challenges of finding the ideal partner are also part of the conversation.
- The use of numerical rating scales and the commodification of individuals are additional topics explored. Ultimately, the discussion emphasizes the significance of critically analyzing works and considering diverse viewpoints.

## [Curated Big Tech Interview Experiences](https://www.onsites.fyi/)

- Onsites.fyi is a platform that collects and shares interview experiences and insights from renowned tech companies such as Apple, Google, Meta, Microsoft, and Amazon.
- The platform offers valuable preparation resources by reviewing real interview experiences, helping users get an idea of what to expect during the interview process.
- Users are encouraged to provide feedback on their own interview experiences, further enriching the platform's content and benefiting future job seekers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38506900)

- The interview processes and hiring practices at top-tier Big Tech companies like Google, Apple, Meta, Microsoft, and Amazon are being discussed.
- Frustration is expressed towards uncoordinated and time-consuming interview processes.
- The benefits of working at Google, such as high pay and potential for early retirement, are mentioned.

## [Building a File System in Rust: Exploring GotenksFS and its Implementation](https://blog.carlosgaldino.com/writing-a-file-system-from-scratch-in-rust.html)

- This article provides an overview of file system concepts and implementation, including organization of data, use of metadata and pointers, and file search optimization methods.
- The author introduces their own file system called GotenksFS, based on ext4, explaining its on-disk structure, configuration options, and maximum file capacity.
- The article covers the process of creating a directory and writing a file in GotenksFS, and includes additional resources for further reading and references used in the writing.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38512248)

- The article explores the process of creating a file system in Rust from scratch, comparing it to the Unix Filesystem (UFS).
- The author advises against using libc types when defining the on-disk format, as they may differ across systems.
- Indirect pointers to data blocks are criticized as outdated, and the use of extents is proposed as a more efficient method for tracking data blocks in large files. The article also delves into the arithmetic behind indirect pointers and their maximum file size capacity.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="LLM Visualization Home: Unlocking the Power of Visualizing Master of Laws Data" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=LLM%20Visualization%20Home%3A%20Unlocking%20the%20Power%20of%20Visualizing%20Master%20of%20Laws%20Data&subheading=Monday%2C%20December%204%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
