---
slug: '/2023/12/06'
---

# 2023-12-06

## [Beeper Mini: Android Gets iMessage with End-to-End Encryption](https://www.beeper.com/)

- Beeper Mini is a third-party iMessage client for Android that enables Android users to send and receive end-to-end encrypted messages directly to Apple servers without a Mac server relay.
- Users can join iMessage group chats, access all chat features, and register their Android phone number on iMessage using Beeper Mini.
- The developers plan to add support for other chat networks like SMS/RCS, WhatsApp, and Signal in the future, and note that third-party iMessage clients have existed before with multi-protocol chat apps like iChat.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38531759)

- The discussions revolve around the compatibility of messaging apps with different platforms and the legality of reverse-engineering Apple's protocols.
- Interoperability between messaging platforms and its impact on spam and phishing are also discussed.
- The limitations of Apple's iMessage and the desire for standardization across devices are debated as well, shedding light on the challenges faced by developers in achieving compatibility and security.

## [Declining Firefox usage threatens support from U.S. government websites](https://www.brycewray.com/posts/2023/11/firefox-brink/)

- Mozilla Firefox browser may face a decline in support from U.S. government websites due to its low market share.
- The U.S. Web Design System only supports browsers with over 2% usage, and currently, Firefox has a 2.2% share.
- The rise of Chrome and Safari on mobile devices is contributing to the decline of Firefox's usage.
- If Firefox falls below the 2% threshold, it may no longer be supported by government websites, potentially leading to a domino effect with corporations discontinuing support as well.
- The author expresses concern about the future relevance of Firefox if its decline continues.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38531104)

- There are concerns about the potential decline of Firefox and its impact on Mozilla.
- Usage figures and the necessity of supporting Firefox in government tech are topics of debate.
- The discussion includes considerations of user privacy, government funding, web standards, user agent strings, and Firefox's performance and compatibility.

## [Understanding iMessage: Inside Apple's Messaging Protocol](https://jjtech.dev/reverse-engineering/imessage-explained/)

- This blog post offers a comprehensive explanation of the internal workings of iMessage, with a particular focus on two key components: the Apple Push Notification Service (APNs) and the IDentity Services (IDS).
- The Apple Push Notification Service (APNs) is responsible for facilitating the sending and receiving of push notifications in iMessage.
- The IDentity Services (IDS) function as a keyserver in encrypted conversations, allowing for the exchange of public keys.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38532167)

- Summaries cover various topics related to Apple's iMessage: security, messaging app preferences, device durability, encryption standards, reverse engineering, and interoperability.
- Common themes include concerns about iMessage's security vulnerabilities and comparisons to other messaging apps like Signal.
- Discussions also involve debates on the durability and longevity of Macs compared to PCs, as well as the importance of experimentation and prototyping in software development.

## [How Shazam's Algorithm Identifies Songs: A Deep Dive (2022)](https://www.cameronmacleod.com/blog/how-does-shazam-work)

- The article provides an explanation of how Shazam identifies songs using its algorithm.
- It discusses the process of creating a fingerprint of the audio sample and matching it with hashes in a database.
- The article also mentions the introduction of a new implementation called "abracadabra" and highlights challenges in song recognition.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38531428)

- The discussion explores different aspects of Shazam, such as its technology, limitations, competition, and user experiences.
- Topics include the use of hashes for song identification, the potential use of neural networks, and the challenges of identifying unique artists.
- Users also discuss Shazam's history, recognition technology, alternative fingerprinting techniques, the impact of shows like "America's Got Talent" on Shazam, and the lack of alternative options.

## [AI-Powered Mass Spying: An Erosion of Privacy](https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2023/12/the-internet-enabled-mass-surveillance-ai-will-enable-mass-spying.html)

- Artificial intelligence (AI) is revolutionizing surveillance and spying, allowing for the tracking of activities and the understanding of conversations at an unprecedented scale.
- AI-powered systems can now summarize meetings and organize millions of conversations, enabling mass spying where all data is saved, searchable, and comprehensible in large quantities.
- Mass spying can reveal intricate details about individuals, including their relationships, alliances, and conversations, and is fueled by ubiquitous microphones like Siri and Alexa.
- Governments, corporations, and tech monopolies are already engaging in mass surveillance, and mass spying will worsen personalized advertising and erode privacy.
- Limiting mass spying would require robust data privacy regulations, although little has been done thus far to address mass surveillance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38530880)

- The article and discussion center around the political implications of mass surveillance, AI's potential negative consequences, and concerns about privacy and data collection.
- Topics covered include government surveillance, the societal impact of technology, biases in AI systems, and the importance of safeguards in AI and surveillance use.
- The conversation stresses the complexity of these issues and the necessity for thoughtful deliberation and regulation.

## [Fine-tuning Mistral 7B for Magic the Gathering Drafts](https://generallyintelligent.substack.com/p/fine-tuning-mistral-7b-on-magic-the)

- The author examines the concept of fine-tuning in language models, focusing on Magic the Gathering drafts.
- Data from 17lands is utilized to train and assess the performance of the model.
- Fine-tuning on new data is found to be more advantageous and cost-effective compared to employing larger pre-trained models, as demonstrated by the successful performance of the draft AI in Magic the Gathering.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38533105)

- The article and comment thread explore the challenges and potential uses of fine-tuning language models in games like Magic: The Gathering draft.
- Key topics include evaluating and selecting players, improving the model's performance, and AI's ability to make effective draft choices.
- The conversation also covers the use of Mistral as a starting point for training an AI, the effectiveness of language models in predicting draft choices, and the possibilities of fine-tuning language models for various purposes.

## [SQLite Introduces JSONB for Faster JSON Processing](https://sqlite.org/forum/forumpost/fa6f64e3dc1a5d97)

- SQLite has introduced a new feature called JSONB, which is a rewrite of the SQLite JSON functions.
- JSONB can be significantly faster than the original JSON functions, depending on usage patterns.
- JSONB changes the internal binary representation of JSON into a contiguous byte array, making it smaller and potentially reducing database size.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38540421)

- SQLite has introduced a new datatype called JSONB, which allows for efficient operations on JSON data stored in a binary format.
- The choice between JSON and JSONB depends on specific requirements and use cases, and the discussion covers the ordering of keys in JSON objects and the differences between JSON and JSONB in databases like Postgres and SQLite.
- The author expresses a dislike for document-based databases and discusses the challenges of migrating data, while also mentioning the benefits and drawbacks of using embedded SQLite databases as records.
- The focus then shifts to the adoption of a binary JSON format in SQLite and emphasizes the importance of portability and backward compatibility. There is praise for the stability and readability of JSONB in SQLite and concerns about the long-term sustainability of the project.
- The discussion briefly touches on the leadership transition in the SQLite software project and expresses concerns about security vulnerabilities in JSON and SQL injection.

## [Professors Under Pressure: Quality Over Quantity](https://twitter.com/hbouammar/status/1731970658278469714)

- The author of the tweet is concerned about the emphasis on quantity rather than quality in the work produced by professors.
- They argue that this pressure can lead to a decrease in the overall quality of the work.
- The author advocates for a shift in focus towards prioritizing quality over quantity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38530207)

- The discussion covers various topics related to scientific research, reproducibility, the value of papers, prompt engineering, complex systems, and the limitations of biology and AI models.
- Participants have diverse opinions and engage in debates about the scientific validity, usefulness, and quality of research topics and practices.
- There is criticism of the academic publishing system and a plea for more transparency and open research, underscoring the complexity and ever-changing nature of scientific research in AI and related fields.

## [Toxic Comments Decrease Volunteer Activity on Wikipedia](https://academic.oup.com/pnasnexus/article/2/12/pgad385/7457939)

- A study examined the effects of toxic comments on volunteer engagement and activity on Wikipedia.
- Toxic comments were found to decrease activity and increase the likelihood of editors leaving the project.
- The study estimates the number of lost active days caused by toxic comments and emphasizes the need to address toxic speech on collaborative platforms.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38530466)

- The summary addresses concerns surrounding toxic behavior, declining volunteer activity, and content moderation on platforms like Wikipedia and Stack Overflow.
- It highlights the challenges of bias and the reliability of information on these platforms.
- Potential solutions discussed include conflict resolution processes, improving trust and good faith, and increasing accountability and transparency.

## [Android 14 to Introduce AVF: Virtualizing Android Workloads for Enhanced Capabilities](https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2023/12/virtual-machines-as-core-android-primitive.html)

- The Android Virtualization Framework (AVF) will be introduced in Android 14 devices, offering new capabilities for platform developers.
- AVF enables virtualization on Android, allowing for isolation of workloads and operating systems.
- Developers can opt for one-way isolation, where Android controls the virtual machine, or two-way isolation, with complete isolation between Android and the virtual machine.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38538100)

- Google is introducing virtual machine technology in Android to improve app security and isolation.
- The discussion explores the potential uses, vulnerabilities, and benefits of virtualization in Android.
- It also examines alternative virtualization options and the ability to run non-Android virtual machines on Android devices.
- Trust and isolation in the face of information leaks or malicious behavior by the OS are highlighted.
- The conversation extends to the use of trusted computing technologies in machine learning, data privacy concerns, and the effectiveness of digital ID cards and remote attestation.
- Rooted phones and isolated implementations are preferred for sensitive authentication purposes.
- The need for bank calls for transaction verification is questioned.
- The discussion also touches on smartphone dependency, confidential computing in virtual machines, and the EU's efforts to give individuals more control over their devices.
- The writer believes that having control over one's device and vendor choice can enhance the usefulness of a technology tool.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Beeper Mini: Android Gets iMessage with End-to-End Encryption" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Beeper%20Mini%3A%20Android%20Gets%20iMessage%20with%20End-to-End%20Encryption&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20December%206%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
