---
slug: '/2023/12/08'
---

# 2023-12-08

## [Gemini Video Demo: Not Real-Time or Voice; Still Images and Narration Used](https://twitter.com/parmy/status/1732811357068615969)

- Google recently showcased a video demo of Gemini that has garnered attention.
- However, a PSA clears up that the demo was not done in real time or using voice.
- Instead, it relied on still images from video footage and human prompts were added later.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38559582)

- The discussion covers a wide range of topics in technology and innovation, including the use of mockups and prototypes, challenges in creating chatbots, and critiques of Google Apps and Microsoft Teams.
- There are debates and criticisms surrounding Google's track record with product development and skepticism towards AI capabilities.
- The conversation also touches on issues of ethics and corporate behavior, such as concerns about misinformation by large corporations and controversies surrounding OpenAI and Tesla.

## [Creating Stunning Images with SVG: A Step-by-Step Tutorial](https://svg-tutorial.com/)

- This tutorial offers a comprehensive guide on coding and creating images using SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics).
- It covers various topics such as drawing basic shapes, building a Christmas tree, making a gingerbread figure, using clip-path, drawing paths, stars, snowflakes, forests, and more.
- Additionally, it explores advanced concepts like using gradients, drawing Bézier curves, adding animation, creating background patterns, and incorporating JavaScript for interaction.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38556116)

- The discussion on Hacker News focuses on using SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics) with React.
- Users explore the benefits and limitations of SVG, recommend tools and workflows, and provide feedback on websites and tutorials.
- Topics covered include rendering graphics, interactivity, CSS styling, text alignment, browser compatibility, and generating SVGs from data.

## [Creating Noisy SVGs: Exploring Texture in Web Design](https://daniel.do/article/making-noisy-svgs/)

- The author explores the growing trend of incorporating textures in web design and expresses their fascination with it.
- They discuss the challenges faced in replicating textures using SVGs and share their efforts in creating an SVG with a noisy, textured shadow effect.
- The author explains the process of utilizing gradients, masks, and filters to achieve the desired effect, although the result may render differently in Safari.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38559607)

- The conversation revolves around creating SVGs and the difficulties in achieving consistent results across various web browsers.
- Discussions also touch upon the use of noise and dithering techniques in digital images, as well as the limitations of SVGs specifically on Safari.
- Users provide suggestions for alternative approaches to overcome compatibility issues and optimize websites for dark mode, but opinions are mixed regarding appearance and optimization on different browsers and modes.

## [Google Drive Data Loss Issue: Users Dispute Google's "Fix"](https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2023/12/google-calls-drive-data-loss-fixed-locks-forum-threads-saying-otherwise/)

- Some Google Drive users are experiencing a data loss issue, with files vanishing mysteriously.
- Google claims to have fixed the problem, but users are reporting that the fix is ineffective.
- The issue primarily affects files created and saved in the web interface, not the desktop app.
- Google has not provided a clear explanation of the problem or its resolution.
- Recovery instructions involve using a hidden UI in the desktop app or command line prompts.
- Users are frustrated by the lack of communication and support from Google, and many are still experiencing the problem despite the supposed fix.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38562726)

- Google is being criticized for its handling of a data loss problem in Google Drive, with users expressing unhappiness about the lack of transparency and communication from the company.
- The conversation also covers customer complaints, suggestions for alternative services to Google, and concerns about data protection and redundancy in cloud computing.
- Users are frustrated with code modifications without their consent and are seeking advice on how to handle the issue.

## [Fairphone 5: Repairable, Sustainable, and Impressive Camera](https://www.ifixit.com/News/87664/fairphone-5-keeping-it-10-10)

- The Fairphone 5 is praised for its repairability and sustainability by the author.
- The quality of the camera and OLED screen are highlighted as impressive features.
- Fairphone's integrity is commended while criticizing Android's update policy.
- The recommendation to use LineageOS for older devices is given.
- Commenter mentions receiving helpful repair information from Fairphone's product management.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38555115)

- Users are discussing smartphone design, sustainability, repairability, and user preferences, focusing on planned obsolescence, lack of upgrades, and e-waste generation.
- The absence of headphone jacks and the use of wireless charging are debated, along with the environmental impact of charging methods and the reliability of different smartphone models.
- Opinions vary, with some users advocating for repairability and sustainability, while others prioritize convenience and design features.

## [A Lost Gem: Unearthing a Hidden Country Song from The X-Files](https://twitter.com/laurenancona/status/1731900441800155459)

- While watching The X-Files, the individual heard a captivating country song playing in a bar scene.
- The individual was so intrigued by the song that they used Shazam, a music identification app, to find out its title and artist.
- This demonstrates the power of technology in helping us discover new music and enhancing our entertainment experiences.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38558423)

- The discussions cover a range of topics including obscure songs, "The X-Files," accessing Twitter content without an account, and DRM arguments.
- Participants share personal stories, provide recommendations, and discuss the influence of drugs on creativity and music composition.
- The discussions also involve speculation and nostalgia about past shows and media.

## [Meta Launches Purple Llama: Open Tools for Safe Generative AI Deployment](https://ai.meta.com/blog/purple-llama-open-trust-safety-generative-ai/)

- Meta has launched the Purple Llama project, which offers trust and safety tools for developers to responsibly deploy generative AI models and experiences.
- The initial releases include CyberSec Eval, a cybersecurity safety evaluation set, and Llama Guard, an input/output filtering safety classifier.
- Meta intends to collaborate with other tech companies to make these tools accessible to the open-source community, as part of their commitment to open and transparent science and the development of an open ecosystem for generative AI.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38556771)

- The discussion addresses multiple subjects such as the absence of recognition of prompt injection in AI models, the security vulnerabilities related to language models, and issues regarding data leakage and user-adverse actions.
- There is an emphasis on prompt injection attacks and their consequences, highlighting the need for improved security measures and evaluation tools.
- Other topics include Meta's AI strategy and challenges, limitations in the application of language models in healthcare, criticisms of Facebook's content moderation practices, controversies surrounding free speech and globalization of US values, the difficulty of humor comprehension for AI models, challenges faced by moderation bots, and concerns about the impact of turbo-capitalism.

## [Lithium Market Plunges as Demand Surges and Spot Prices Collapse](https://wolfstreet.com/2023/11/23/lithium-shortage-bubble-implodes-once-again-as-demand-and-production-both-surged/)

- Battery-grade lithium carbonate spot prices have dropped by 77% in one year due to a shift from a lithium shortage to a surplus, caused by increased production and demand.
- Stardust Power, a startup, intends to construct a lithium refinery in the US using funds from a merger with a Special Purpose Acquisition Company (SPAC).
- The US plans to join the global lithium production market, alongside current dominant players such as Australia, Chile, and China, with Exxon Mobil and other companies preparing for production in the near future.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38556456)

- The global price of battery-grade lithium carbonate has decreased in 2023, bringing China's price closer to that of the US and Europe.
- Factors contributing to China's higher price include limited transportation and shipping capacity, increased energy prices, and the monopolistic market structure of lithium suppliers.
- The article discusses the demand for solar production, potential sodium substitution in batteries, the environmental impact of lithium mining, and the strategic benefits of lithium reserves.

## [Meta's 'Imagine with Meta AI' Generates Photorealistic Images using 1.1B Social Media Photos](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2023/12/metas-new-ai-image-generator-was-trained-on-1-1-billion-instagram-and-facebook-photos/)

- Meta has launched a new website called "Imagine with Meta AI" that uses AI to generate images based on written prompts.
- The AI model was trained on a massive dataset of 1.1 billion publicly available images from Facebook and Instagram.
- Users can generate images on the website by importing their Meta account from Facebook or Instagram, but the AI model doesn't handle text rendering or different media outputs effectively.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38557054)

- Participants are debating whether AI-generated content should be protected by copyright laws and how creativity plays a role in AI.
- The concept of copyright laundering and the legality of using copyrighted data for training AI models are being discussed.
- Copyright implications in genres like fan-fiction and satire, as well as concerns about legal liability and the limitations of copyright law in addressing AI-generated content, are also part of the conversation.

## [Data Engineering Design Patterns: Unlock the Secrets to Efficient and Effective Data Architecture](https://www.dedp.online/)

- "Data Engineering Design Patterns" is a book that discusses the concept of convergent evolution in data engineering and its importance in design patterns.
- The book offers a comprehensive understanding of data engineering, covering history, core concepts, and best practices.
- It is targeted towards professionals and practitioners in data engineering, assuming a basic understanding of SQL, programming, and data tools.
- The book provides practical guidance on navigating complex data architectures using open-source tools.
- A unique feature of the book is its iterative approach, with new chapters released regularly and incorporating reader feedback.
- By learning and applying these design patterns, data engineers can enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of their work and contribute to better decision-making and business outcomes.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38557715)

- Data engineering has evolved from being a domain for software engineers to a field attracting individuals with a background in business intelligence.
- The author highlights their experience and team structure at Airbnb to illustrate this shift.
- The difference between data engineers and software engineers is explored, along with the changing role and challenges faced by data engineers.
- The discussion also delves into the future of specialized roles in data engineering, data science, and machine learning.
- The author acknowledges that their book is currently incomplete but plans to release more updates in the future.

## [Tailscale Gives Users IP Address Control for Network Security](https://tailscale.com/blog/choose-your-ip/)

- Tailscale, a network security software company, now gives users control over the IP addresses assigned to their nodes.
- Previously, Tailscale allocated unique IP addresses within its own universe, but due to high demand, they are now allowing the reuse of addresses from the CGNAT range.
- Tailscale has also introduced a beta feature that allows users to define the IP pool from which their nodes are assigned addresses, and existing nodes can have their IP addresses changed.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38559192)

- Users are having discussions about Tailscale, a networking tool, focusing on its privacy and security aspects, as well as its effectiveness and user-friendly interface.
- Users share their experiences with alternatives to Tailscale and discuss the differences between IPv4 and IPv6.
- Experiences and opinions about Wireguard, a feature of Tailscale, are also shared, highlighting the benefits and limitations of Tailscale as a reliable and convenient VPN solution with simplified configuration and access control features.

## [Beware of Fake Chips: A Tech Sector Scam](https://linuxjedi.co.uk/2023/12/01/fake-chips-i-got-stung/)

- The author of the article conducted an investigation into fake chips in the tech sector, specifically chips that were disguised as more expensive models by changing their markings.
- Through various tests, the author discovered discrepancies in power consumption, confirming that the chips were not genuine.
- Fake chips are a prevalent issue that can cause potential damage to the devices they are used in. Additionally, the author mentioned designing a prototype board for retro machines that uses new, genuine chips.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38557246)

- There is a discussion about the prevalence of counterfeit electronic components and the challenges of obtaining authentic parts.
- Participants express concerns about the quality and authenticity of Chinese products and emphasize the need for reliable sources.
- The potential consequences of using counterfeit chips in military and industrial applications are discussed, highlighting the importance of controlling the supply chain for consistent and reliable parts.

## [Tesla Shares 48V Architecture to Drive Automotive Advancements](https://electrek.co/2023/12/07/tesla-shares-48v-architecture-with-other-automakers-to-move-the-industry/)

- Tesla is making its 48V architecture available to other automakers, with the goal of advancing the automotive industry.
- The 48V architecture is a power system that allows for more efficient energy distribution in vehicles.
- By sharing this technology, Tesla hopes to drive innovation and accelerate the adoption of electric vehicles in the market.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38557203)

- The discussion explores the advantages of 48V architectures in automakers, including improved cost, efficiency, and wire size considerations.
- Safety concerns and challenges associated with the widespread adoption of higher voltage systems are discussed.
- The potential use of castings, as well as Ethernet and Power over Ethernet (PoE) in cars, are considered, with implications for hybrid and electric vehicles.

## [Tesla strike expands as Danish and Norwegian unions unite with Swedish employees](https://www.theregister.com/2023/12/07/swedish_tesla_strike_international/)

- Employees at Tesla in Sweden have been on strike since October, and labor unions in Denmark and Norway are planning to join the boycott.
- The Danish union 3F and Norway's Fellesforbundet will take action to disrupt Tesla's operations, demanding compliance with labor agreements in the Nordic countries.
- If a collective agreement is not reached by mid-December, sympathy strikes will start in Denmark and Norway. The strikes are a response to allegations of Tesla's refusal to negotiate with unions and provide fair wages, pensions, and insurance for employees.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38557228)

- Danish and Norwegian unions have joined Swedish Tesla employees in a strike, causing an international conflict.
- Danish pension fund PensionDanmark is selling its holdings in Tesla due to the company's refusal to enter into a labor union agreement.
- The Norwegian Pension Fund may also consider divesting from Tesla.

## [OpenAI Employees Reluctant to Join Microsoft Amidst Culture Clash and Compensation Concerns](https://www.businessinsider.com/openai-employees-did-not-want-to-work-for-microsoft-2023-12)

- After the removal of CEO Sam Altman, OpenAI employees considered accepting a blanket offer from Microsoft, but most were not genuinely interested in working for Microsoft and saw it as a last resort.
- Many employees felt pressured to sign an open letter demanding Altman's reinstatement and the resignation of the OpenAI board, driven by a clash of cultures, lack of respect for Microsoft's talent bar, and disbelief in compensation promises.
- Money was also a motivating factor, as millions of dollars in equity were at risk if OpenAI were to collapse. However, Altman has been reinstated, and the planned tender offer for equity is proceeding, valuing OpenAI at over $80 billion. Microsoft employees were upset with the promise to match salaries for OpenAI employees, considering Microsoft's previous layoffs and salary cuts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38560041)

- The discussions revolve around OpenAI, Microsoft, leadership changes, employee concerns, company cultures, and motivations.
- Topics discussed include forced use of products, public vs private companies, compensation packages, board dynamics, trust in software, and the future of AGI development.
- Commenters express disagreement on the motivations and actions of individuals involved and the potential impacts of certain decisions, highlighting the complexity and diverse perspectives surrounding these topics.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Gemini Video Demo: Not Real-Time or Voice; Still Images and Narration Used" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Gemini%20Video%20Demo%3A%20Not%20Real-Time%20or%20Voice%3B%20Still%20Images%20and%20Narration%20Used&subheading=Friday%2C%20December%208%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
