---
slug: '/2023/12/10'
---

# 2023-12-10

## [Gooey: Transform Your Python Command Line Program into a GUI App with Ease](https://github.com/chriskiehl/Gooey)

- Gooey is a Python library that allows developers to convert console programs into GUI applications with a single line of code.
- It offers various features such as internationalization, customizable layouts and menus, dynamic validation of user inputs, lifecycle events, and progress tracking.
- Gooey can be installed through pip or by cloning the project from GitHub, and it provides options for custom icons and packaging.
- The library is designed for Python developers who want to create user-friendly GUI interfaces for their console programs.
- Contributions in the form of code, translations, documentation, or graphics are encouraged.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38586767)

- The discussion explores the use of Python libraries and tools for creating GUI applications, integrating command line interfaces, and improving accessibility and productivity.
- The limitations and benefits of argparse and other CLI libraries are discussed, including the compatibility with Gooey.
- The challenges of implementing legislation mandating API functionality for all applications, as well as the need for better integration and communication between programs, are also explored.

## [W4 Games Secures $15M to Fuel Godot Engine Video Game Development](https://w4games.com/2023/12/07/w4-games-raises-15m-to-drive-video-game-development-inflection-with-godot-engine/)

- Irish startup W4 Games has secured $15 million in Series A funding to support video game development using the open-source Godot Engine.
- The funding round was led by OSS Capital, with participation from prominent investors including Naval Ravikant and Justin Hoffman.
- W4 Games plans to expand globally, introduce new offerings, and increase its workforce by over 100% within the next year and a half, leveraging the open-source model to revolutionize the gaming industry.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38580742)

- W4 Games secures $15 million in funding to support video game development using the Godot Engine, with a focus on console porting efforts.
- Improbable, a gaming technology company, raises a substantial $500 million in funding.
- The Godot Engine is deemed suitable for smaller projects but is seen as improving and potentially viable for larger and more visually advanced games in the future. Some users believe it can even be used for AAA games.
- Concerns arise regarding the separation from the parent organization and potential control forks, as well as encountered issues and limitations. However, there is still optimism for improvements.
- The discussion also highlights the use of Godot for teaching kids coding and creating educational activities.
- Various software tools for artistic and game development purposes, such as Photoshop and Krita, are compared and discussed.

## [A380 Engine Failure: Qantas Flight 32's Miraculous Landing](https://admiralcloudberg.medium.com/a-matter-of-millimeters-the-story-of-qantas-flight-32-bdaa62dc98e7)

- Qantas Flight 32, operated by an Airbus A380, suffered a major engine failure in 2010 due to a small defect in an oil pipe.
- The engine exploded, causing significant damage to the aircraft, but the flight crew skillfully landed the plane safely without any injuries.
- This incident showcased the effectiveness of aviation safety measures and emphasized the overall safety of flying. Despite the incident, the A380 model remained in service until 2021, even though it was not widely favored by many airlines.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38586773)

- The discussion covers a range of topics related to aviation safety and engineering, highlighting the robustness and reliability of the aviation industry.
- It emphasizes the ability to trace and identify faulty parts, regulation and testing of autopilot code, and the importance of responding to mistakes for improvement.
- The conversation compares aviation and software industries in terms of safety focus and touches on incidents, concerns, and preparedness related to airline safety and maintenance.

## [Murder Engine: A Promising Pixel Art ECS Game Engine in C#](https://github.com/isadorasophia/murder)

- Murder Engine is an in-development pixel art ECS game engine based on MonoGame.
- The engine follows the Murder architecture and offers examples for world, entity, and component creation.
- Murder Engine supports development on Linux, macOS, Windows, and SteamDeck, with .NET 8 SDK installed.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38581852)

- This post introduces "Murder," a pixel art ECS game engine written in C#.
- Users in the comments praise tutorials on pixel art by saint11 and their work on the game Celeste.
- The post includes code examples of components and systems in the ECS framework, sparking discussions on garbage collection strategies, the adoption of C# in game development, and the use of the Monogame project.

## [Empowering Developers: Creating Apps for Linux to Drive Innovation and Growth](https://makealinux.app)

- The summary emphasizes the need for more applications on Linux and encourages developers to create new apps instead of focusing on creating more Linux distributions.
- It highlights the benefits of app development, such as fulfilling personal needs, inspiring new developers, building communities, learning new skills, earning income, and targeting diverse Linux distributions.
- Developers are provided with resources and platforms, such as GNOME, KDE, elementary OS, Electron, and Ubuntu Touch, to start creating Linux apps.
- Industry professionals stress the importance of a thriving app ecosystem for Linux.
- Various tools and platforms for publishing and distributing Linux apps, including AppCenter, AppImage, Flatpak, Open Build Service, and Snapcraft, are mentioned.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38583399)

- The discussion highlights the challenges of app development in Linux, including issues with stability, compatibility, and fragmentation in distributions.
- It addresses the need for unified solutions in Linux, particularly in selecting SDKs and handling payments.
- Other topics covered include the lack of Unicode support in Linux's libc, the impact of the glibc library on software stability, and the use of Electron for app development.

## [Mozilla's Efforts Pay Off: Firefox Speed Boosted by 50%](https://blog.mozilla.org/en/products/quick-as-a-fox-firefox-keeps-getting-faster/)

- Mozilla has focused on improving the speed and performance of Firefox, leading to a 50% boost in performance based on the Speedometer 2.1 benchmark.
- Users have noticed a 15% increase in the speed at which web pages load on average.
- Mozilla will be releasing more technical information about their progress in the near future.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38586512)

- The discussions on the Mozilla Firefox browser cover various topics, such as stability issues, slow loading times, customization options, performance comparisons, revenue-generating projects, and declining market share concerns.
- Users participate in these discussions by sharing their experiences, offering suggestions, and expressing frustration with different aspects of Firefox's functionality and performance.
- This provides insights into the challenges and areas of improvement for the Mozilla Firefox browser.

## [Doug Engelbart's 1968 Demo: Videos, Photos, and More](https://dougengelbart.org/content/view/209/)

- The document contains valuable information and resources about Doug Engelbart's 1968 demo, such as videos, photos, conference proceedings, and online exhibits.
- It emphasizes the continued importance and impact of Engelbart's work, as well as the various events and recognition he has received.
- The document also provides online resources for those interested in learning more about Engelbart's contributions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38583881)

- The collection of discussion threads explores various topics including the decline of SRI, Doug Engelbart's groundbreaking technology demonstration, the significance of demos in the computer industry, Elon Musk's influence on Twitter, and the debate between centralized and decentralized financial systems.
- These discussions offer valuable insights into the evolution of computer technologies and the role of visionary thinkers in driving innovation.
- The threads also touch on the contentious issues of censorship and the impact of technology on society.

## [Vulnerabilities in TETRA Radio Network Encryption Algorithms Exposed](https://www.cryptomuseum.com/radio/tetra/burst.htm)

- Researchers at Midnight Blue have discovered vulnerabilities in the authentication and encryption algorithms used in the TETRA radio network, which is widely used in critical infrastructures worldwide.
- The vulnerabilities, including a deliberate backdoor, have been reported to the NCSC in the Netherlands and publicly disclosed to encourage patch implementation.
- Midnight Blue has reverse-engineered and released C-source code of the encryption algorithms to shed light on the vulnerabilities, as ETSI (responsible for TETRA algorithms) does not disclose or subject them to public research.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38583489)

- The TETRA radio network has vulnerabilities, including a critical backdoor exploit and outdated encryption that can be targeted with brute-force attacks.
- The TEA encryption algorithm used in the network has a reduced key size, making it susceptible to attacks, raising concerns about the interception of secure communication.
- The article discusses the role of academics and open-source communities in discovering encryption weaknesses and the debate surrounding responsible disclosure of vulnerabilities and vendor responsibilities. It also mentions the use of TEA1 encryption in the US and Europe's involvement in espionage.

## [Increase in Air Traffic Control Incidents Due to Shortage of Controllers](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/02/business/air-traffic-controllers-safety.html)

- The United States is currently experiencing a nationwide shortage of air traffic controllers, leading to a fatigued and demoralized workforce.
- Controllers are hesitant to seek help for physical and mental health issues, further exacerbating the problem.
- The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is facing challenges in training and hiring new controllers, resulting in understaffed control sites and increased overtime hours. This has led to safety concerns and resignations among controllers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38587340)

- The discussion covers various topics such as air traffic control incidents, car accidents, pandemic effects on driving behavior and student performance, safety in air travel and space flights, hiring practices in air traffic control, concerns about automation, and diversity hiring.
- There are disagreements regarding the causes of incidents and accidents, the impact of diversity in the hiring process, and the effectiveness of certain safety measures.
- The conversation emphasizes the importance of careful analysis, avoiding quick conclusions based on correlations, and the need for continuous improvement in safety across different modes of transportation.

## [Introducing SecureAI Tools: Open-source Chat with AI Models and PDFs](https://github.com/SecureAI-Tools/SecureAI-Tools)

- SecureAI Tools is an open-source application layer for interacting with AI language models (LLMs) and OpenAI-compatible APIs.
- It currently offers two features: Chat-with-LLM and Chat-with-PDFs.
- The tool is designed for self-hosting and includes basic user management features.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38587052)

- SecureAI Tools has created an open-source application layer that serves as an alternative to ChatGPT and ChatPDF AI tools.
- The tool supports running locally hosted Language Model (LLMs) and is compatible with OpenAI APIs, offering features like Chat-with-LLM and Chat-with-PDFs.
- Users have inquired about the integration of the tool into Slack and its capability to handle scanned PDFs.

## [Amazon's Honesty Problem: Failed Refund on Undelivered Item Sparks Criticism, Prompts Legal Action and Credit Card Provider Change](https://www.bentasker.co.uk/posts/blog/opinion/amazon-parcel-contents-get-stolen-and-then-amazon-tries-to-keep-payment.html)

- The author recounts a negative experience with Amazon where a high-value item was not delivered and no refund was issued, raising concerns about theft within Amazon's delivery system and criticizing their handling of the situation.
- The author expresses dissatisfaction with American Express's response to a chargeback and plans to pursue legal action.
- The author advises against using one-time passwords for high-value items and suggests finding a new credit card provider.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38584230)

- Amazon Prime members are experiencing slower delivery speeds, with some reporting shipping times of up to 7 days instead of the promised 2-day delivery.
- Dissatisfaction with these delays has led to cancellations of Prime subscriptions and consideration of alternative shopping options.
- Customers are expressing frustration with package thefts in certain areas, as well as dissatisfaction with Amazon's customer service and refund processes. There are also discussions about employee theft and the need for stricter regulation in the market.

## [Fintech Startup Raises $8M to Revolutionize Charitable Giving with AI and Blockchain](https://unoriginal.blog/introducing-dwlaas/)

- Fintech startup Deadweight Loss as a Service has raised $8 million in seed funding and is launching a platform to optimize charitable giving using AI and blockchain technology.
- The platform introduces two key features: OmniMatch™, which matches funding up to 50 cents on the dollar, and Antidollars™, which can remove or donate $1 to an organization's antithesis.
- Users can send money or Antidollars™ to supported organizations, and the platform guarantees a minimum subsidy of 10 cents per dollar. The startup has seen promising volume in closed beta and plans to introduce Pro Mode™ in the future to enhance liquidity with AI technology.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38581373)

- The article discusses several interesting concepts such as deadweight loss as a service, campaign money contributing to GDP, cancel culture, a satirical startup idea, investing in antistocks, YouTube's autoplay feature and ads, and potential business models involving donations and micropayments.
- The discussion provides a range of perspectives, from satire and amusement to critique and concern, offering a well-rounded examination of these concepts.
- This article is special because it covers a variety of thought-provoking topics, appealing to readers interested in the intersection of technology, economics, and social issues.

## [Spotify's Enhanced Shuffling Algorithm: Fibonacci Hashing for Even Artist Distribution](https://pncnmnp.github.io/blogs/fibonacci-hashing.html)

- This blog post delves into Spotify's initial approach to shuffling songs in a playlist, and the problem they encountered with consecutive songs by the same artist.
- Spotify modified their shuffling algorithm to evenly distribute artists throughout the playlist by implementing dithering algorithms.
- The author explores a method for selecting colors using the HSV space and applies the Fibonacci hashing algorithm to evenly distribute colors.
- The post discusses an algorithm for shuffling songs based on artists and compares it with the Fisher-Yates shuffle.
- Fiedler's algorithm, the history of hashing, and the use of hash functions to reduce stored item information are also covered.
- The post concludes by suggesting the conversion of a number into binary format and dividing it by a prime number to determine an address.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38581959)

- Users are frustrated with the lack of randomness and repetition in music playlists on Spotify.
- Suggestions are made for improving the playlist algorithm, such as using different shuffling techniques, clustering options, and customization features.
- Speculation arises about the motivations behind song repetition and the possible influence of financial interests.

## [Sneakers Film Promo Kit: Password-Protected Floppy for Media](https://archive.org/details/Sneakers_Film_Promotional_Floppy)

- The Sneakers Computer Press Kit is a promotional tool released in 1992 for the movie "Sneakers".
- It is a floppy-based "computer press kit" designed for press use, containing information on the cast, plot, and production.
- The program is password-protected and DOS-based, assisting the press in quickly accessing the provided information.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38585213)

- The post explores the movie "Sneakers" and its connection to real-world instances of unauthorized software installations by companies without user consent.
- It discusses the movie's technical accuracy, features, and makes references to other hacking-related movies and games.
- The post highlights the involvement of Leonard Adleman, a mathematician and co-creator of RSA encryption, as a consultant for the movie.

## [Apple Shifts iPad Engineering to Vietnam, Reduces Dependence on China](https://asia.nikkei.com/Spotlight/Supply-Chain/Apple-to-move-key-iPad-engineering-resources-to-Vietnam)

- Apple is shifting its product development resources for the iPad to Vietnam to decrease reliance on China for manufacturing.
- The company is collaborating with China's BYD, a major iPad assembler, to transfer new product introduction (NPI) resources to Vietnam, marking a significant move.
- This highlights the growing importance of Vietnam as a production hub for Apple and reflects the trend of tech companies exploring alternative manufacturing locations beyond China.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38582000)

- Apple is planning to shift some of its manufacturing operations from China to Vietnam and India to decrease dependence on China and minimize risks.
- Tech companies confront difficulties in finding skilled talent, highlighting the significance of diversifying production locations.
- The potential impact of AI on programming and worries about offshoring for development work are mentioned, emphasizing the importance of investing in technical domains and avoiding overconcentration of manufacturing in specific countries.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Gooey: Transform Your Python Command Line Program into a GUI App with Ease" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Gooey%3A%20Transform%20Your%20Python%20Command%20Line%20Program%20into%20a%20GUI%20App%20with%20Ease&subheading=Sunday%2C%20December%2010%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
