---
slug: '/2023/12/12'
---

# 2023-12-12

## [Beeper Mini app fixes messaging issue, offers free access, and challenges Apple on security](https://blog.beeper.com/p/beeper-mini-is-back)

- Beeper Mini, a chat app that enables communication between Android and iPhone users, faced a messaging issue that has now been resolved with a published update.
- Phone number registration is currently unavailable, and users must sign in using an AppleID. Messages will be sent and received through email instead of phone numbers.
- Despite the issue causing a drop in the app's ranking, Beeper is working diligently to stabilize the app and is offering it for free. The cofounders of Beeper believe the app enhances security and privacy for both Android and iPhone users and are willing to share its codebase with a third-party security research firm for validation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38602575)

## [Epic Games Wins Lawsuit Against Google, Ruling it Created an Illegal App Store Monopoly](https://www.theverge.com/23945184/epic-v-google-fortnite-play-store-antitrust-trial-updates#stream-entry-65d34a06-1fa5-4eab-abf6-ce450441b543)

- The jury has ruled in favor of Epic Games in the lawsuit against Google, stating that Google has created an illegal monopoly with its app store and billing service.
- Google plans to appeal the verdict, challenging the decision.
- Epic Games presented internal documents during the trial to support their claim of Google's anticompetitive behavior, while Google defended its fee collection method and highlighted competition with Apple.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38607424)

## [FISA "reform" bill expands surveillance scope to more entities](https://www.zwillgen.com/law-enforcement/fisa-reform-bill-702-surveillance/)

- The House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence has approved the FISA Reform and Reauthorization Act of 2023, which would extend the authorization for Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA 702).
- The bill includes a provision that would expand the government's authority under FISA 702 by broadening the definition of "electronic communication service providers" (ECSPs) that can be compelled to assist in surveillance.
- If passed, these changes would significantly increase the number of businesses and entities required to assist in FISA 702 surveillance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38605525)

## [Portland officials propose public drug use ban to revive city](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/11/us/portland-oregon-drug-laws.html)

- State and city officials in Portland, Oregon are considering rolling back part of the state's drug decriminalization law to address increasing overdoses and business exodus from the city.
- The plan includes a ban on public drug use and increased police enforcement to enhance safety.
- A task force led by the governor has proposed tax relief for businesses and increased services for homeless residents, in addition to the proposed drug policy changes. However, drug-policy reform advocates have voiced concerns over potential consequences of criminalizing drug use.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38605643)

- The discussion delves into the issues of drug addiction, homelessness, and the specific challenges that cities like Portland and Seattle face in addressing these problems.
- There is disagreement over the effectiveness of current strategies, with a particular focus on the shortcomings of Measure 110 in Oregon, and alternative solutions such as providing free housing and implementing drug regulation are considered.
- The impact of drug use on public spaces, the complexities of delivering comprehensive support services, and the importance of efficient management and accountability in utilizing funds are all key points of discussion.

## [Tohands Smart Calculator: Track Sales and Expenses Easily](https://smart.tohands.in/)

- Tohands Smart Calculator is a user-friendly and efficient calculator designed specifically for shopkeepers to manage their sales and expenses.
- It offers daily, weekly, and monthly reports and analytics to help shopkeepers track their business performance.
- Currently, orders are unavailable due to high demand, but customers can join a waitlist to be notified when the calculator becomes available again.
- The calculator features a large display, works offline, and has a built-in memory to store up to 40 lakh transactions.
- It is an affordable alternative to traditional billing machines and comes with a 1-year warranty.
- Featured in various publications, the Tohands Smart Calculator is proud to be a Made in India product.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38599270)

## [Jury rules in favor of Epic Games, declares Google's app store a monopoly](https://www.theverge.com/23994174/epic-google-trial-jury-verdict-monopoly-google-play)

- The jury has ruled in favor of Epic Games in the lawsuit against Google over alleged app store monopolies.
- The verdict states that Google's Google Play store and Google Play Billing service constituted an illegal monopoly and that Google engaged in anti-competitive behavior.
- Judge James Donato will determine the specific remedies and potential monetary damages for Epic Games in January, and both parties will meet to discuss potential remedies.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38607474)

- Google has been found guilty of having an illegal monopoly in the app store battle by a jury verdict.
- The ruling suggests that Google's practices in managing its app store have violated antitrust laws.
- This decision highlights the ongoing scrutiny and legal challenges faced by major tech companies over their dominance in various markets.

## [GigaGPT: Training GPT-2 Sized Models with Cerebras Hardware](https://www.cerebras.net/blog/introducing-gigagpt-gpt-3-sized-models-in-565-lines-of-code)

- GigaGPT is Cerebras' implementation of Andrei Karpathy's nanoGPT code base for training large-scale GPT models.
- It can handle models with over 100 billion parameters using Cerebras hardware without additional code or frameworks.
- GigaGPT is based on the GPT-2 architecture and has been successfully tested with models ranging from 111 million to 175 billion parameters.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38603207)

- The discussion explores multiple aspects of machine learning models and hardware, including the development of efficient large-scale training methods and the potential move towards simpler architectures.
- Increasing compute power is seen as beneficial, but concerns are raised about the lack of performance information for certain chips.
- Different language models and frameworks offer varying capabilities and flexibility, leading to debates about the effectiveness and simplicity of different implementations. The significance of the number of lines of code in a project is also a topic of differing opinions. Ultimately, there is no consensus on the importance of the project discussed.

## [Bad science and statistics in court lead to wrongful convictions](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/bad-science-and-bad-statistics-in-the-courtroom-convict-innocent-people/)

- The use of flawed science and statistics in court can lead to the wrongful conviction of innocent individuals.
- Juries and judges often lack the expertise to properly evaluate scientific evidence, resulting in flawed expert testimony.
- Misleading forensic techniques and pseudoscientific practices contribute to unsound convictions, highlighting the need for improved education on scientific and statistical evidence in the courtroom.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38601960)

- The article and discussions shed light on numerous flaws in the criminal justice system that contribute to wrongful convictions and unfair outcomes.
- Issues discussed include faulty science and statistics, biased expert witnesses, inadequate legal representation, and systemic injustices.
- Concerns regarding the use of technology and evidence, the impact of drug laws, and the difficulty of proving innocence are also addressed.
- Suggestions for improvement include increased resources, transparency, accountability, and addressing biases within the system.

## [Rethinking Undo: Improving Text Editor User Experience](https://cdacamar.github.io/data%20structures/algorithms/benchmarking/text%20editors/c++/rethinking-undo/)

- The article explores the concept of undo and redo in text editors and different implementation approaches.
- The author proposes a data structure and visualization strategy for managing undo/redo operations to enhance the user experience.
- Benefits of using immutable data structures and understanding the diff algorithm are also emphasized, suggesting that the proposed approach may be more efficient than the traditional linear undo/redo model.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38601435)

- The discussion explores the importance of user configuration in undo/redo functionality in text editors.
- It examines the behavior of undo/redo commands in different editors and the challenges of modal editing.
- The implementation of undo/redo systems in various applications is also discussed, along with the benefits of Emacs' undo in region feature and the use of persistent data structures.

## [House Intelligence Committee's Surveillance Bill Enables Mass Surveillance for Eight Years](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2023/12/section-702-needs-reform-and-oversight-not-expansion-congress-should-oppose-hpsci)

- The House Committee on the Judiciary and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence have proposed different bills to reauthorize Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA).
- The Judiciary Committee's bill, H.R. 6570, addresses concerns about warrantless backdoor searches and the purchase of Americans' data without a warrant. It suggests renewing the authority for three more years.
- The Intelligence Committee's bill, H.R. 6611, renews mass surveillance authority for eight years, allows collection of U.S. persons' communications without a warrant, and expands surveillance to vet asylum seekers and a broader range of online providers. The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) urges supporting the Judiciary Committee's bill over the Intelligence Committee's bill.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38607071)

- The House Intelligence Committee's surveillance "reform" bill is facing criticism for being a farce.
- An article on Hacker News questions the bill's ability to genuinely address surveillance concerns.
- Doubts are raised about the effectiveness of the bill in addressing surveillance issues.

## [Transpiling WebAssembly to C: A Runtime-Free Alternative](https://00f.net/2023/12/11/webassembly-compilation-to-c/)

- The article discusses an alternative approach to compiling WebAssembly code by transpiling it into C source code.
- This approach allows for improved debugging, easy integration with existing C code, and the ability to compile and run WebAssembly on new platforms.
- The transpiled C code can be compiled with a regular C compiler, resulting in faster and smaller executables compared to traditional WebAssembly runtimes.
- However, there are limitations, such as the lack of just-in-time compilation and the manual setup of memory guard pages.
- The approach is suitable for improving code safety and running WebAssembly on unsupported platforms, but traditional runtimes offer more features and flexibility.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38602750)

- The comments on this post discuss various topics related to WebAssembly (WASM) such as its potential as a web development runtime, language compatibility issues, security concerns, portability, performance differences compared to JavaScript, and the need to improve existing web technologies.
- Some commenters express skepticism about the limitations and drawbacks of WASM, while others highlight its benefits in terms of safety, control flow, and software preservation.
- The discussions show a combination of excitement and caution regarding the use of WASM in different applications and environments.

## [Expanding SQL Statements with 'RESULTDB': Unlocking the Potential for Returning a Database](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00638)

- The paper suggests removing the limitation in SQL statements that only allows the return of a single table.
- The authors propose extending the SELECT-clause of SQL with a keyword 'RESULTDB' to enable returning a result database.
- They highlight the advantages of this approach, such as simplified application code, enhanced query performance, reduced query result sizes, and faster query result transfer times.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38606146)

- The paper examines the idea of returning a database as a result of an SQL statement and explores its potential benefits and challenges.
- Topics discussed include object-relational mapping, query performance, joining related data, nested JSON structures, and the limitations of SQL.
- Participants highlight potential advantages such as improved performance and simplified complex queries, as well as reduced load on the database. Terminology, hierarchical data retrieval, and the feasibility of returning a database as a SQL statement are also explored.

## [Transparent wood: A game-changer for smartphone screens and insulated windows](https://arstechnica.com/science/2023/12/why-scientists-are-making-transparent-wood/)

- Scientists are creating a transparent wood material for various applications, including smartphone screens and insulated windows.
- The wood is made transparent by eliminating pigments in plant cells and can be reinforced with epoxy resin for added strength.
- Transparent wood is stronger and tougher than plastic and glass, potentially providing a sustainable and durable alternative for various products.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38600031)

- Transparent wood is a material created by replacing wood's lignin with epoxy resin, and its development and potential applications are being discussed.
- Topics covered in the discussions include the challenges of parenting, the efficiency and sustainability of window glazing materials, the recyclability and suitability of transparent wood for various applications, voiceover techniques used by a YouTuber, challenges in increasing glass recycling rates in the US, and comparisons with other materials like glass and plastic.
- Other materials such as polyaramide are also mentioned, along with the importance of using accurate names for new materials.

## [US Lawyer's Concerns Over Sports Betting's Harmful Effects and Need for Regulations](https://www.ft.com/content/497fdb45-fe81-4b13-97d0-70abe667b94f)

- The article features an interview with a prominent US lawyer who previously prosecuted the tobacco industry and is now involved in the issue of sports betting.
- The lawyer expresses concerns about the potential negative impacts of widespread sports betting and emphasizes the importance of regulations to safeguard consumers.
- The influence of the gambling industry on politics and the need for public education on the risks associated with gambling are also discussed.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38602786)

- The discussion covers a wide range of topics concerning the gambling industry, such as concerns about the predatory aspects of sports betting and the banning of consistent winners.
- Other topics include the pros and cons of legalization and regulation, the impact on families and society, the morality of advertising, and comparisons to other regulated industries.
- The conversation also touches on the addictive nature of gambling, the regulation of loot crates in video games, the influence of advertising on smoking and vaping, and corruption in sports.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Beeper Mini app fixes messaging issue, offers free access, and challenges Apple on security" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Beeper%20Mini%20app%20fixes%20messaging%20issue%2C%20offers%20free%20access%2C%20and%20challenges%20Apple%20on%20security&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20December%2012%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
