---
slug: '/2023/12/13'
---

# 2023-12-13

## [23andMe's New Terms Block Hacked Customers from Suing](https://www.engadget.com/23andme-frantically-changed-its-terms-of-service-to-prevent-hacked-customers-from-suing-152434306.html)

- Following a hack in October, genetic testing company 23andMe has updated its terms of service to prevent customers from filing class action lawsuits and participating in a jury trial.
- Under the new terms, customers are automatically opted into these changes unless they opt out.
- The company's actions have sparked outrage from users who believe 23andMe is attempting to conceal their mistakes and evade potential legal action.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38613386)

- The discussion highlights concerns surrounding privacy and security in genetic testing companies like 23andMe.
- It addresses flaws in the US credit score system and weaknesses in consumer protection laws.
- Liability issues related to trucking companies and debates about the enforceability of terms of service are also discussed.

## [YouTube under fire for not removing scam ads with deepfake videos of public figures](https://old.reddit.com/r/youtube/comments/18gjiqy/youtube_doesnt_want_to_take_down_scam_ads/)

- Reddit users are frustrated with YouTube for allowing scam ads featuring deepfake videos of public figures, like Elon Musk, and report that YouTube does not take action upon reporting these ads.
- There are discussions on the potential consequences for YouTube, including suggestions of legal action against the platform.
- Users criticize YouTube for displaying misleading or offensive ads and question the platform's ability to effectively monitor and control its ads.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38611466)

- The Reddit discussion revolves around the problem of scam ads on platforms like YouTube and Google.
- Users are frustrated with the platforms' lack of action in removing these scam ads and the potential harm they can cause to vulnerable individuals.
- The conversation also touches on targeted advertising, the influence of ads on users, the call for stronger regulation, and the prioritization of ad revenue over user safety.
- Alternatives to platforms like YouTube and the debate between business growth and profitability are also explored.
- The discussion highlights the importance of platforms taking responsibility for their advertising content and protecting users from scams.

## [Inhumane Treatment: Gaza Palestinians Expose Israeli Arrest and Torture](https://www.aljazeera.com/features/2023/12/12/like-we-were-lesser-humans-gaza-boys-men-recall-israeli-arrests-torture)

- Three Palestinians in Gaza have bravely shared their accounts of being subjected to stripping and abuse by Israeli forces.
- These personal testimonies shed light on the human rights violations and mistreatment faced by Palestinians in the region.
- The stories highlight the need for international attention and action to address these issues and seek justice for the victims.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38616550)

- The article examines discussions on online platforms about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, highlighting diverse viewpoints, experiences, and debates among users.
- Topics covered include criticisms of Israeli officials' treatment of Palestinians and the US invasion of Iraq, support for a two-state solution, challenges in removing Hamas from power, and the importance of considering multiple perspectives.
- Discussions also touch on issues such as living conditions, civility in online conversations, and the difficulties in finding practical solutions without foreign interference.

## [FFmpeg introduces breakthrough multi-threading for improved video transcoding](https://www.phoronix.com/news/FFmpeg-CLI-MT-Merged)

- FFmpeg has merged a multi-threaded command line update, which is considered one of the most significant changes in decades.
- The update is intended to enhance video transcoding in the modern, many-core environment.
- Changes include a thread-aware transcode scheduling infrastructure and transitioning FFmpeg to a threaded architecture.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38613219)

- The discussion explores various subjects such as upgrades to FFmpeg's command line interface and improvements in video encoding for streaming.
- Netflix's optimization techniques and the capabilities of AI in code refactoring are also discussed.
- Language models like GPT-4 are highlighted, sparking differing opinions on the effectiveness and limitations of these technologies.

## [Xfinity Faces Scrutiny Over Price Hike amid Calls for Transparency](https://www.techdirt.com/2023/12/12/the-telecom-industry-is-very-mad-because-the-fcc-might-examine-high-broadband-prices/)

- Xfinity is raising its monthly fees by $3.00, prompting concerns about transparency and the allocation of funds.
- There is a request for Xfinity to disclose payments made to edge providers, but the purpose of the price increase is not clear.
- The lack of transparency raises questions about how the additional funds will be utilized by Xfinity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38613552)

- The telecom industry is under fire for expensive broadband prices and a lack of regulation.
- EPB Fiber receives praise for its fast and reliable service and is seen as a well-run ISP with excellent customer support.
- Discussions encompass the advantages of municipal internet, dissatisfaction with cable companies, debates on government involvement, and the complexities of taxes and fees in internet service pricing. Additionally, criticisms of ISPs include misleading advertising, inconsistent internet speeds, and a lack of competition. Regulatory capture and corporate priorities are also mentioned.

## [Open-source macOS AI copilot with screenshot and audio analysis](https://github.com/elfvingralf/macOSpilot-ai-assistant)

- The macOS copilot tool created by the author enables users to capture screenshots, record audio, and send them to OpenAI for analysis.
- The tool is built using NodeJS/Electron and utilizes OpenAI's Whisper, Vision, and TTS APIs for analyzing and presenting the response in-context and as audio.
- It operates in the background and can be activated via a keyboard shortcut. More details and demonstrations can be found in the GitHub readme and on Twitter.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38611700)

- The discussions revolve around several topics including open-source software development, AI copilot tools, music composition aids, videoconferencing privacy concerns, and framework choices for development.
- Users provide suggestions for improving existing tools and discuss concerns about privacy and data usage.
- Topics also include the integration of AI models with various systems and the potential benefits and limitations of these tools.

## [Tuta and Privacy Advocates Rally Against Surveillance Powers in the US](https://tuta.com/blog/702-open-letter-against-surveillance)

- Tutanota (now Tuta) and other privacy-first companies are advocating against the reauthorization of Section 702 of the FISA in the US, which allows the NSA to collect data from US citizens without warrants or probable cause.
- They have written a letter to Congress, stressing the need for strong surveillance reform to protect privacy and prevent abuses.
- The companies argue that unfettered surveillance erodes trust, leading to negative economic and social consequences, and support legislative proposals for reform and greater transparency.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38611590)

- The discussion covers government surveillance, the balance between citizens' rights and security, concerns about law enforcement abuse of power, and skepticism towards the FBI's actions.
- It also addresses the erosion of individual rights, the size and role of government, and the influence of corporate media.
- Examples of legislation and executive orders that have expanded or curtailed government powers, as well as the potential consequences and risks of security measures, are explored. There are different perspectives and disagreements on these topics.

## [Works by People Who Died in 1953 and 1973 to Enter Public Domain in 2024](https://publicdomainreview.org/features/entering-the-public-domain/2024/)

- The Public Domain Review is hosting a fundraiser to support their project.
- Each year, new works enter the public domain and become free to use.
- In 2024, works by individuals who died in 1953 and 1973, as well as films and books published in 1928, will be in the public domain.
- The website is unveiling a new highlight each day until January 1st, when all the works will be revealed.
- The Public Domain Review is a registered Community Interest Company that relies on donations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38616753)

- The discussion explores various aspects of copyright, trademark, and the public domain, including the expiration and impact on iconic characters like Mickey Mouse and Winnie the Pooh.
- Publishers face challenges in dealing with books in the public domain, while different countries have complex copyright laws.
- The concept of giving away work for free as an author is also discussed, with specific examples such as Steamboat Willie and the accessibility and restoration of films in the public domain.

## [NSA Releases Guidance on Memory Safe Roadmaps for Cybersecurity](https://www.nsa.gov/Press-Room/Press-Releases-Statements/Press-Release-View/Article/3608324/us-and-international-partners-issue-recommendations-to-secure-software-products/)

- The NSA has released a cybersecurity information sheet titled "The Case for Memory Safe Roadmaps" to guide software manufacturers and technology providers in eliminating memory safety vulnerabilities from their products.
- The CSI recommends the use of memory safe programming languages like C#, Go, Java, Python, Rust, and Swift and suggests creating roadmaps for their adoption.
- The report, co-authored by the NSA, CISA, FBI, and international partners, emphasizes prioritizing design and implementation practices that reduce customer risk through the use of memory safe languages in software development.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38611175)

- The discussion covers various programming language topics like Rust in graphics programming, security vulnerabilities in C and C++, transitioning to new languages incrementally, and using static analysis to improve software safety.
- It explores the comparison of Rust, C, and C++ in terms of usability and safety, memory safety of different languages, conversion friction in language adoption, and the benefits and challenges of learning Rust.
- The conversation also touches on regulations in software development, government mandates, effects of government regulations on programming languages, the use of memory-safe languages in government contracts, and other topics like operator overloading in C++, undefined behavior and security in Python, and the comparison of C++, Rust, and other languages in terms of memory safety and bug-free code.

## [Upgrading Postgres Database with Zero Downtime: Success Story and Strategies](https://knock.app/blog/zero-downtime-postgres-upgrades)

- Knock successfully upgraded their Postgres database from version 11.9 to 15.3 with no downtime using logical replication, support scripts, and tools in Elixir & Erlang's BEAM virtual machine.
- The post provides a detailed explanation of the upgrade process and considerations, including de-risking the upgrade and steps for preparation.
- Different options for upgrading a PostgreSQL database are discussed, along with setting up replication, monitoring, and strategies for replicating small and large tables. The approach of refreshing a subscription, managing and migrating large tables, and adding tables to replication one at a time is explained.
- The steps and considerations for migrating a database, changing applications to connect to new databases, and a checklist for the cutover process are provided.
- The summary concludes by highlighting the successful zero downtime migration to version 15.3 and the importance of such migrations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38616181)

- The article discusses different aspects of database upgrades, downtime, and technology choices.
- It covers methods for performing zero-downtime upgrades and the trade-offs between consistency and availability.
- Other topics include challenges and expectations of database availability during updates, upgrading to PostgreSQL version 11.21, implementing blue/green deployment, minimizing downtime in SaaS companies, and the use of KSUIDs and UUIDs.

## [E3 Shut Down as Gaming Industry Adapts](https://www.washingtonpost.com/entertainment/video-games/2023/12/12/e3-permanently-canceled/)

- The Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3), the gaming industry's biggest convention, has been officially shut down by the Entertainment Software Association (ESA).
- The decision to end E3 was driven by factors such as increased competition, partner withdrawals, evolving audience preferences, and the disruptions caused by the pandemic.
- The ESA believes that the benefits of showcasing games directly to audiences through online video news conferences outweigh the drawbacks of participating in a trade show.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38612779)

- The relevance of the E3 gaming event is being debated, with participants expressing disappointment and suggesting that it has become controlled by big game companies.
- The rise of online platforms and other gaming events have made E3 less necessary in the industry.
- Factors such as the impact of the pandemic, changing audience habits, and partner withdrawals are also contributing to the decline of E3.

## [Answer.AI: Revolutionary AI R&D Lab Focused on Practical and Ethical AI Applications](https://www.answer.ai/posts/2023-12-12-launch.html)

- Answer.AI is a new AI R&D lab founded by Jeremy Howard and Eric Ries with a focus on creating practical end-user products based on AI research breakthroughs.
- The lab will operate as a remote team of deep-tech generalists and has received a $10 million investment from Decibel VC.
- Answer.AI's approach is inspired by Thomas Edison's Invention Lab, emphasizing iterative development of AI applications and the use of existing models. The lab will conduct original research on fine-tuning models and reducing constraints on AI usage. They are committed to ethical and beneficial AI applications, aiming to make AI more accessible and aligning long-term profitability with positive societal impact.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38614232)

- Answer.AI, a new R&D lab, is looking for academic collaborations to advance research in making AI more accessible.
- The lab emphasizes the challenges of fine-tuning AI models and the importance of domain-specific models in addition to AGI.
- Jeremy Howard, co-founder of fast.ai and Kaggle, leads the lab and is open to collaborations with other organizations. Discussions also touch on language models, hardware developments, and the use of certain words. Some participants question the lab's strategy of announcing plans without producing any products.

## [AI's Religious Schism: Fear vs. Progress](https://www.programmablemutter.com/p/the-singularity-is-nigh-republished)

- The article examines the division within the AI community between those who embrace AI progress and those who express concerns about its power.
- It discusses how science fiction, specifically the idea of the Singularity, has shaped these beliefs.
- The clash between rationalists emphasizing AI risks and Silicon Valley entrepreneurs promoting techno-optimism is addressed, with the article calling for a more diverse and inclusive dialogue on AI.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38616888)

- The article discusses the concept of a singularity in artificial intelligence, where AI exceeds human intelligence, and raises doubts about its feasibility and implications.
- It highlights challenges in managing complex code, reliance on technology, and the rapid pace of technological advancement.
- The discussion touches on topics like consciousness, copyright laws, AI ethics, and the limitations of human understanding in the face of advancing technology, urging skepticism and the need for adaptability.

## [Frustration with Digital Content Ownership & Anti-Consumer Practices](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/blog/2023/forget-spaceships-i-just-want-my-music)

- The author expresses frustration with digital content ownership, highlighting difficulties in accessing and purchasing music and TV shows.
- Criticism is directed towards streaming services removing content from libraries and the shift towards stream-only media.
- The author contemplates piracy when paid content is inaccessible and expresses dissatisfaction with DRM and anti-consumer practices in the entertainment industry.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38613154)

- The discussion delves into the challenges of accessing and buying digital content, including frustrations with piracy and the role of artists and sellers in the creative industry.
- It also addresses issues like region locking of streaming content, the decline of physical media, and concerns about the control and longevity of digital platforms.
- The debate sheds light on the intricate nature of copyright, ownership, and consumer rights in the digital age.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="23andMe's New Terms Block Hacked Customers from Suing" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=23andMe's%20New%20Terms%20Block%20Hacked%20Customers%20from%20Suing&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20December%2013%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
