---
slug: '/2023/12/15'
---

# 2023-12-15

## [Mitchell Hashimoto bids farewell to HashiCorp after 11 years, reflects on company's impact](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/mitchell-reflects-as-he-departs-hashicorp)

- Mitchell Hashimoto, co-founder of HashiCorp, has announced his departure from the company after 11 years in a heartfelt letter expressing gratitude for the impact HashiCorp has made.
- Hashimoto shares his decision to leave and seek new challenges beyond cloud automation and infrastructure tooling.
- He highlights HashiCorp's growth and achievements, including widespread software adoption and recognition in open source projects, and wishes the company success in the future.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38647484)

- Mitchell Hashimoto, co-founder of HashiCorp, is leaving the company after 14 years, garnering congratulations and gratitude from the community for his contributions to the software development industry.
- Discussions revolve around HashiCorp's projects, recent licensing changes, and the concept of multi-cloud deployment with Terraform.
- Speculation is rife about Mitchell's future endeavors and potential alternatives to HashiCorp's projects, along with the importance of operations and Infrastructure as Code (IaC) work in the open-source community.

## [Mozilla Expands Extension Support for Firefox on Android with Over 450 New Add-Ons](https://blog.mozilla.org/en/mozilla/new-extensions-youll-love-now-available-on-firefox-for-android/)

- Mozilla has introduced more than 450 new extensions for Firefox on Android, establishing an open extension ecosystem on mobile.
- Users can now customize and enhance their web experience on Firefox for Android by easily installing these extensions.
- Popular desktop extensions like uBlock Origin and Dark Reader are now available on mobile, and more extensions will be added in the coming months.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38644608)

- Mozilla has expanded extension support for Firefox for Android, allowing users to install any extension from addons.mozilla.org (AMO).
- The delay in expanding extension support was due to the extensive work required to rewrite the UI of Firefox for Android.
- Discussions surrounding this topic include speculation about Mozilla's decision, concerns about privacy, criticism of the use of an AMO account, and suggestions for warning users about untested extensions.

## [The Consequences of Abolishing QA Teams in Software Development](https://davidkcaudill.medium.com/maybe-getting-rid-of-your-qa-team-was-bad-actually-52c408bd048b)

- Getting rid of quality assurance (QA) teams in software development can have negative consequences.
- Automating tasks and optimizing processes may lead to neglecting the importance of testing.
- QA roles are crucial for effectively managing software quality, including defect tracking, bug triage, defect investigation, focus on quality, and end-to-end testing. Ignoring these activities can have detrimental effects.
- Recognition and support for those who prioritize quality in software development organizations are essential.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38645856)

- QA teams play a crucial role in software development, and relying solely on developers for testing has drawbacks.
- Various testing approaches, such as bug bashes and fuzz tests, are explored in the discussion.
- The limitations and challenges faced by QA teams, including undervaluation and lack of training and collaboration, are highlighted, underscoring the need to prioritize quality assurance and thorough testing in software development.

## [Barcelona Supercomputing Center Introduces Sargantana: New Open-Source RISC-V Chip](https://www.bsc.es/news/bsc-news/bsc-presents-sargantana-the-new-generation-the-first-open-source-chips-designed-spain)

- The Barcelona Supercomputing Center (BSC) has introduced the third generation of Lagarto processors, called Sargantana, which are based on open-source RISC-V technology.
- Sargantana processors aim to promote European technological sovereignty and reduce dependence on multinational corporations.
- The chip offers improved performance and is the first in the Lagarto family to operate above the gigahertz frequency barrier, reinforcing BSC's position as a leader in RISC-V computing research in Europe.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38640406)

- The Barcelona Supercomputing Center has created an open-source RISC-V chip called Sargantana, prioritizing security and local chip production.
- GlobalFoundries has developed a new 22nm planar process for older chips, sparking conversations on the challenges, costs, and feasibility of producing chips at smaller node sizes.
- Discussions cover various topics including producing older chips on a hobbyist level, the limited number of producers for older fabs, the profitability of the semiconductor industry, the importance of a reliable chip supply, prospects for the EU in semiconductor fabrication, CPU design performance, language development, and information about the Sargantana chip.

## [Interview with a Mainframe COBOL Programmer: Challenges of Outdated Technology and Transitioning to a New Database](https://ezali.substack.com/p/interviewing-my-mother-a-mainframe)

- The article features an interview with the author's mother, a mainframe COBOL programmer for a bank in the EU.
- The interview highlights the significance of her role, challenges with outdated technology, and the bank's plan for transitioning to a newer database.
- It also discusses the bank's struggles with managing large amounts of data, the aging programmer population, and the complexity of banking systems.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38645159)

- Discussions on a forum highlight challenges faced by young programmers and the value of institutional knowledge in mainframe COBOL programming in the banking industry.
- The integration of old and new systems, the difficulty of finding skilled COBOL programmers, and personal anecdotes about working in the tech industry are also discussed.
- Additionally, topics include preserving wisdom from earlier generations, the decline of women in programming, and the migration to new operating systems in the banking industry.

## [FunSearch: Using LLMs to Uncover New Mathematical Insights](https://deepmind.google/discover/blog/funsearch-making-new-discoveries-in-mathematical-sciences-using-large-language-models/)

- FunSearch is a method that utilizes large language models (LLMs) to make new discoveries in mathematical sciences.
- It pairs a pre-trained LLM with an automated evaluator to search for functions written in computer code and generate new knowledge.
- The researchers used FunSearch to solve the cap set problem and discover more effective algorithms for the bin-packing problem, outperforming state-of-the-art computational solvers.
- FunSearch produces programs that explain how the solutions were arrived at, making it a powerful scientific tool.
- The research demonstrates the potential of LLM-driven approaches for new discoveries in mathematics and real-world applications.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38643076)

- Language Model-based Genetic Programming (LLMs) is a topic of debate in the mathematical sciences community.
- Participants discuss the advantages of LLMs in generating plausible programs and avoiding nonsensical ones.
- The potential of LLMs in solving the cold start problem is highlighted.
- The cost and fitness of LLMs compared to other genetic programming techniques are questioned.
- The discussion also explores the broader impact of AI, including the potential of neural networks in generating new knowledge and the implications for wealth inequality.
- Overall, there are diverse perspectives on the value and advancements brought by LLMs in code evolution and problem-solving.

## [The Hidden Checkbox: Dropbox's AI Features Spark Trust Crisis](https://simonwillison.net/2023/Dec/14/ai-trust-crisis/)

- Dropbox's new AI features have faced criticism and raised trust concerns regarding the use of private files as training data for OpenAI models.
- While Dropbox denies using customer data without consent, a hidden checkbox in their settings has caused confusion and sparked comparisons to Facebook's microphone spying controversy.
- Lack of trust in AI and technology companies undermines privacy and data protection, highlighting the importance of clear explanations and transparency to regain trust. Additionally, there is a growing preference for local models on personal devices for privacy reasons. Trust must be earned through openness and honesty in data handling.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38643046)

- The article and discussion center around the AI trust crisis and the importance of consent in website privacy.
- It emphasizes the need for a legal definition of consent to prevent deceptive practices.
- The discussions cover concerns about fraud and accountability in granting consent, challenges in enforcing consent in digital contracts, data privacy, advertising practices, and the trustworthiness of tech companies.

## [Intel CEO Vows to Eliminate CUDA Market in Pursuit of AI Dominance](https://www.tomshardware.com/tech-industry/artificial-intelligence/intel-ceo-attacks-nvidia-on-ai-the-entire-industry-is-motivated-to-eliminate-the-cuda-market)

- Intel CEO Pat Gelsinger criticizes Nvidia's CUDA technology, claiming the industry is working to eliminate it.
- Gelsinger believes that inference technology for AI is more crucial than training and that Intel will focus on it.
- Intel aims to compete with Nvidia in the AI market, emphasizing support for open standards and forming partnerships with Nvidia and AMD.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38645021)

- The discussion covers various topics in the technology industry, including software, hardware, and competition.
- Intel CEO Pat Gelsinger is making efforts to challenge the dominance of NVIDIA CUDA and explore alternative frameworks like PyTorch.
- Other discussions include random number generation, encryption techniques, and limitations of graphics cards for machine learning tasks. The article emphasizes the importance of software proficiency and the challenges faced by companies like Intel in the GPU market.

## [Apple Partially Halts Beeper's iMessage App Amidst Frustration and Uncertainty](https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2023/12/apple-partly-halts-beepers-imessage-app-again-suggesting-a-long-fight-ahead/)

- Apple has partially blocked Beeper's iMessage app for Android users, leading to inconvenience and uncertainty for users.
- Beeper's co-founder and users are expressing frustration and urging Apple to grant access to iMessage.
- Apple cites privacy, security, and spam concerns as reasons for blocking Beeper, but Beeper denies compromising iMessage security. The outcome depends on the pressure from the press and community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38646903)

- Apple has partially blocked Beeper's iMessage app, potentially indicating a conflict.
- The block is affecting a small percentage of users and may not be intentional.
- Discussions revolve around spam in iMessage, the benefits of cross-platform messaging, and potential protocol changes.
- Users are debating the reliability and user experience of iMessage, integration with other messaging services, and Apple's exclusivity.
- Concerns are raised about lost or misdirected messages, Apple's security measures, and the use of impossible serial numbers.
- There is debate about the prevalence of iPhones, limitations of messaging apps, and the impact of iMessage on social dynamics.
- Beeper is highlighted as a messaging service for connecting Android and iOS users, addressing demands for interoperability.
- The article mentions Apple Music, Spotify, and regional messaging platform preferences.
- The discussion touches on antitrust concerns and Apple's control over its ecosystem.

## [Ledger's NPM Account Hacked, Users Advised to Exercise Caution](https://github.com/LedgerHQ/connect-kit/issues/29)

- Urgent issue: Malicious version of npm package @ledgerhq/connect-kit potentially compromising user data.
- Users advised not to connect Ledger wallet to repository until issue is resolved due to reports of users losing coins after clicking suspicious link.
- Security vulnerability discovered in @ledgerhq/connect-kit-loader, affecting downstream projects like Wagmi and MetaMask SDK. Suggestions made to merge pull request, freeze dependencies, scrutinize third-party dependencies, and verify resources before loading them.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38641211)

- Discussions revolve around various vulnerabilities and concerns with NPM, GitHub, Ledger, Ethereum, and the cryptocurrency industry in general.
- Topics include the lack of optional signing support on NPM, criticism of NPM for not accepting community-contributed signing support, and the absence of the "integrity" field in the package-lock.json file.
- Other issues discussed are the use of PGP keys for code signing, supply chain attacks, phishing attacks, security concerns with Ledger devices, stablecoin risks, the role of automation in publishing processes, vulnerabilities in CDNs, and the need for enhanced security measures.

## [Bill S-210: Protecting Children or Infringing on Internet Freedoms?](https://www.michaelgeist.ca/2023/12/the-most-dangerous-canadian-internet-bill-youve-never-heard-of-is-a-step-closer-to-becoming-law/)

- Bill S-210, also known as the Protecting Young Persons from Exposure to Pornography Act, has passed the Senate and is currently under review by the Public Safety committee.
- The bill aims to protect children from online harm but has faced criticism for potentially infringing on personal choices and internet freedoms.
- The government is considering the use of age verification systems with face recognition technology, which has raised privacy concerns.
- The bill also includes provisions for website blocking.
- The article argues against the bill, highlighting the importance of safeguarding children without resorting to government-sponsored censorship.
- The comment section explores alternative solutions and the challenges of blocking or censoring websites due to advancements in web technologies.
- The article is written by Michael Geist, who shares his concerns about Bill C-11 and other topics related to the Broadcast and Telecom Legislative Review Panel Report.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38643369)

- Proposed Canadian internet bill, S-210, aims to restrict access to sexually explicit content and protect children.
- Critics raise concerns about lack of democratic pushback, privacy, censorship, and abuse of power.
- Debate includes lobbying efforts for anti-CSAM measures, petition against Trudeau, effectiveness of age verification systems, overblocking, parental control, government control, filtering systems' limitations, rule enforcement, social media's impact on youth mental health, and the importance of parental guidance and education.

## [Police departments fail to uphold transparency with body camera footage](https://www.propublica.org/article/how-police-undermined-promise-body-cameras)

- Some police departments are refusing to release body camera footage, as seen in the case of Miguel Richards being shot by the NYPD.
- The effectiveness of body cameras in promoting transparency and accountability in the criminal justice system is being questioned.
- Proper regulation, oversight, and accountability are needed to address these concerns and ensure the intended deterrent effect on officer behavior.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38641198)

- The use and accessibility of police body camera footage for accountability purposes is the main topic of discussion.
- Concerns are raised about evidence concealment, reliability and maintenance of the footage, and intentional suppression of evidence.
- Suggestions include regular checks of the footage, proper camera maintenance, and holding officers accountable for using the cameras during interactions with the public.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Mitchell Hashimoto bids farewell to HashiCorp after 11 years, reflects on company's impact" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Mitchell%20Hashimoto%20bids%20farewell%20to%20HashiCorp%20after%2011%20years%2C%20reflects%20on%20company's%20impact&subheading=Friday%2C%20December%2015%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
