---
slug: '/2023/12/16'
---

# 2023-12-16

## [Exploring Database Fundamentals: ACID Properties, Storage Engines, and Conflict Resolution](https://tontinton.com/posts/database-fundementals/)

- The passage explores key topics in databases such as ACID properties, storage engines, distributed systems, consistent hashing, and conflict resolution.
- Emphasis is placed on the significance of durability, performance, and availability in databases.
- Various strategies for minimizing conflicts are discussed, along with real-life examples and implementations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38655066)

- The summary provides an overview of various topics related to database fundamentals, including theories, optimizations, indexes, distributed systems, and domain-specific databases.
- It also covers storage and indexing methods used in specific database systems.
- Discussions on working as a database engineer or administrator and career opportunities in the field are also included.

## [Suspects can refuse phone passcodes to police, Utah court rules](https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2023/12/suspects-can-refuse-to-provide-phone-passcodes-to-police-court-rules/)

- The Utah state Supreme Court has unanimously ruled that criminal suspects have the right to refuse to provide phone passcodes to the police based on the Fifth Amendment's protection against self-incrimination.
- The ruling resulted in the overturning of a suspect's conviction because he refused to provide his passcode.
- This ruling may prompt the US Supreme Court to weigh in on the issue and provide clarity on how the Fifth Amendment applies to unlocking phones, addressing the inconsistency and confusion in lower court decisions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38657577)

- The discussion explores individuals' rights when interacting with the police, such as the right to remain silent and the use of passcodes on phones.
- There is a debate surrounding court decisions and their impact on privacy, encryption, and the need for a digital privacy rights amendment.
- Concerns about law enforcement abuses of power and the use of warrants are also mentioned in the conversation.

## [Reverse Engineering Bluetooth LE LED Light Controllers: From Home Automation Success to Accidental Bricking](https://www.whizzy.org/2023-12-14-bricked-xmas/)

- The author shares their experience reverse engineering LED light controllers that use Bluetooth LE for communication.
- They were successful in connecting inexpensive lights to their home automation system but faced challenges with more complex lights controlled by the "iDeal LED" app.
- The author details the steps they took to reverse engineer the Bluetooth communication, including analyzing bytes, replaying attacks, decompiling the Android app, and decrypting packets.
- They also discovered additional effects not available in the app but accidentally bricked the lights in the process.
- Despite the setback, the author documented the protocol and developed a custom component for Home Assistant.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38657126)

- The author shares their experience troubleshooting Christmas lights and discovering a pattern in the hex dump.
- There is a discussion on LED lights, power supply failures, and using a Raspberry Pi to salvage LED strings.
- The conversation explores topics such as testing lights with multimeters, reverse engineering encrypted lights, and repurposing Christmas lights with alternative microcontrollers.

## [How a Mechanical Engineering Student Designed a Lego Polaroid Camera Set](https://www.theverge.com/c/23991049/lego-ideas-polaroid-onestep-behind-the-scenes-price)

- Lego has chosen the design for a Lego Polaroid camera created by mechanical engineering graduate student Marc Corfmat as an official set after it received 10,000 votes on the Lego Ideas platform.
- The development process involved rigorous quality control and testing, with challenges faced in creating a functioning shutter button and selecting the material for the photo.
- The final design closely resembles the original Polaroid OneStep model, but some requested features, such as a camera strap and warranty stickers, were not included. Marc, although not directly involved in the design process, is thrilled to see his idea become a reality and will receive 10 free copies of the Lego set.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38653456)

- A Reddit thread provides a comprehensive discussion on various topics related to Lego sets, including the types of Lego bricks, size compatibility, challenges in submitting designs, and the influence of artificial intelligence in Lego creation.
- The conversation also delves into changes in Lego's product strategy, opinions on the appeal and environmental impact of Lego, nostalgia for older sets, and the experience of building Lego as an adult.
- The discussion highlights the diverse opinions and experiences of Lego enthusiasts, showcasing the wide range of thoughts on Lego's suitability for creative play.

## [Oxlint: A Faster and More Efficient JavaScript Linter for Enhanced Code Quality](https://oxc-project.github.io/blog/2023-12-12-announcing-oxlint.html)

- Oxlint, a JavaScript linter, has been released and is now generally available.
- It aims to improve on ESLint by offering faster feedback and better diagnostics.
- Oxlint is designed for performance, with a speed that is 50-100 times faster than ESLint, and it focuses on identifying errors in code. Additionally, it requires no configuration to use.
- The tool consolidates rules from popular plugins and has plans to develop a plugin system in the future.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38652887)

- The discussion encompasses various topics such as linters, programming languages, and tooling in software development.
- There are debates surrounding the usefulness and complexity of linters, with suggestions for enhancing ESLint and TypeScript linting.
- Comparisons between different formatters and linters, discussions on the JavaScript ecosystem, and alternative languages like Rust and Go are also part of the conversation, highlighting the challenges and considerations in using linters and selecting programming languages.

## [WebP's Compression Falls Short for Professional Photography: Web Designer's Critique](https://eng.aurelienpierre.com/2021/10/webp-is-so-great-except-its-not/)

- The author, a responsible web designer, expresses frustration with converting their photo library from JPEG to WebP format, questioning the effectiveness of WebP's lossless compression for professional photography.
- The author argues against the use of averages and metrics in evaluating image quality and suggests sticking to high-quality JPEGs instead.
- Alternatives to improving loading speed and user experience are recommended, including using a fast CDN, responsive image sizes, and image lazy loading, as well as collaborating with artists and prioritizing their challenges and priorities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38653110)

- The article explores concerns about the quality of the WebP image format, comparing it to formats like JPEG and PNG in terms of file size and display quality.
- It discusses the use of lossless WebP files as an alternative to PNG and highlights the varying support for WebP across different browsers.
- The article mentions the discontinuation of WebP2 development and introduces alternative formats like AVIF and JPEG XL, as well as Mozilla's mozjpeg project.

## [CSS Styles, JavaScript Manipulation, and HTML Append: A Comprehensive Guide to Web Page Engineering](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/prompt-engineering)

- The first snippet contains CSS styles for a web page, including font, layout, animation, colors, and media queries.
- The second and third snippets consist of JavaScript code that modifies browser history and adds script and HTML elements to an HTML document.
- These snippets provide instructions for styling and enhancing the functionality of a web page.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38657029)

- The discussions center around prompt engineering and the limitations of language models, with participants sharing their experiences and strategies for producing desired results.
- Clear instructions and structured data are emphasized as crucial for achieving the desired outcomes.
- The potential impact of language models on human communication and the importance of specific prompts for improving model outputs are also discussed. The discussions provide insights into the challenges and potential advancements in language models.

## [Supabase and Fly.io Partner to Launch Fly Postgres, a Managed Postgres Offering on the Edge Computing Platform](https://supabase.com/blog/postgres-on-fly-by-supabase)

- Supabase and Fly.io have joined forces to introduce Fly Postgres, a managed Postgres solution that enables the deployment of Postgres databases on Fly.io's edge computing platform.
- Fly Postgres offers advantages such as extensions, pgVector support, connection pooling, backups, and observability, making it ideal for high-data applications.
- Supabase has developed a streamlined process for interacting with the Fly API, and this collaboration marks Supabase's shift towards becoming a multi-cloud provider.
- Challenges including network limitations and backups within Fly are currently being addressed, and interested users can sign up for the preview, which includes one free project.
- Pricing details for Fly Postgres will be announced in the future, but it is expected to remain relatively unchanged from the current pricing structure.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38653212)

- Supabase has partnered with Fly.io to provide a managed version of Fly's unmanaged Postgres, with plans to introduce high availability features.
- The discussion includes topics such as the reliability and performance challenges of cloud infrastructure, the distinction between Fly.io and Supabase's database offerings, comparisons to other Postgres services, and concerns regarding IP addresses and networking limitations.
- Supabase is also developing blob storage capabilities for their services, and the integration of Supabase and Fly.io is regarded as a positive development.

## [Delta Dental Data Breach Exposes Personal Information of 7M Patients](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/delta-dental-says-data-breach-exposed-info-of-7-million-people/)

- Delta Dental of California and its affiliates suffered a data breach, compromising the personal information of nearly 7 million patients.
- The breach was due to a vulnerability in the MOVEit Transfer software.
- Steps are being taken by the company to investigate and respond to the incident, including notifying the affected individuals.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38654805)

- Dental insurance company Delta Dental experienced a data breach compromising the personal information of 7 million individuals, including names, financial account numbers, and credit/debit card numbers.
- The breach could lead to severe consequences for Delta Dental, potentially resulting in the revocation of their credit card processing capabilities.
- This incident emphasizes the importance of robust data security measures and the potential risks and consequences associated with a breach. Discussions surrounding the breach involve concerns about data security practices, compliance with PCI rules, and the protection of credit/debit card information.

## [Boost Software Engineering Productivity with 4 Key Habits](https://read.engineerscodex.com/p/simple-software-engineering-habits)

- Four key habits are discussed to improve software engineering productivity: leaving work slightly unfinished, learning shortcuts, maintaining a list of commands and links, and saying "no" to non-essential tasks.
- The concept of "flow" is introduced as a state that can be achieved by leaving work slightly unfinished, enabling better focus and productivity.
- The importance of learning keyboard and mouse shortcuts is emphasized to reduce reliance on the mouse and increase efficiency.
- Keeping a list of searchable commands and links is recommended to quickly access essential resources and save time.
- The article suggests learning to say "no" to non-essential tasks to prioritize important work and avoid unnecessary distractions.
- A software engineering quiz is mentioned as a tool to improve knowledge and confidence in job interviews.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38658262)

- Hacker News is hosting a discussion on the concept of leaving work slightly unfinished at the end of the day for increased productivity and focus.
- Participants share strategies to fully grasp tasks and highlight the advantages of beginning the next day with a fresh start.
- The conversation delves into the effectiveness of leaving tasks unfinished as a productivity hack, implementing default instructions, and adopting efficient habits in software engineering.

## [DIY USB-C MIDI Synth: Smallest and Affordable Microcontroller Creation](https://mitxela.com/projects/smsc)

- The author shares their experience in creating a USB-C MIDI synthesizer using an inexpensive microcontroller.
- They discuss using existing USB stacks, soldering a breakout board for testing, and creating a small development board for future projects.
- The author also talks about the challenges of designing a circuit board for a vertically-mounted USB-C plug, the design process, and panelization.
- They altered the USB connector footprint, assembled the board, and designed a connector for a phone or tablet dock.
- Other topics mentioned include using USB-C extension cables, flashing synths, and potential issues with a USB-C port.
- The author concludes by mentioning the availability of the project's source code.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38658497)

- A hacker has developed the world's smallest USB-C MIDI Synth, a synthesizer that can be inserted into a USB-C port.
- The project was completed in just a few days and required materials costing between $50 and $200.
- The hacker emphasizes the advantages of working on personal projects without the limitations imposed by corporations.
- The synthesizer can generate square waves and is considered a proper synthesizer due to its ability to generate audio-rate waveforms.
- The challenges associated with USB-C cables and connectors are also discussed.

## [Vulnerability in Writer.com Enables Data Theft via Language Model Manipulation](https://promptarmor.substack.com/p/data-exfiltration-from-writercom)

- The post discusses a vulnerability in the Writer.com application that enables attackers to access a user's private documents.
- Attackers can exploit this vulnerability using an attack called indirect prompt injection, manipulating the language model to send private information to the attacker.
- Writer.com has not yet fixed this vulnerability, despite it being disclosed.
- The post presents an attack chain showcasing how the vulnerability can be exploited and shares examples of data exfiltration.
- Previous similar attacks on language models are mentioned, along with additional resources on the subject.
- The post also provides a timeline of responsible disclosure to the Writer.com team.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38654533)

- A hacker employed an indirect prompt injection technique to extract data from Writer.com, exploiting a vulnerability in the chatbot's handling of subliminal commands embedded in a document.
- This attack blurs the boundary between technical hacking and social engineering, underscoring the growing trend of utilizing human language in computer interactions.
- The incident raises concerns about access control requirements, social engineering risks, and the potential for machine learning models to generate convincing human-like responses. Ensuring the protection of user data is of utmost importance.

## [Unraveling Patterns: An Interactive Guide to the Fourier Transform](https://betterexplained.com/articles/an-interactive-guide-to-the-fourier-transform/)

- The Fourier Transform is a mathematical tool that breaks down patterns into individual components for analysis.
- It views signals as circular paths and allows for filtering, separating components, compressing data, and analyzing sound and radio waves.
- The article provides resources and examples for learning about the Fourier Transform, emphasizing its ability to understand cycles and create complex shapes through combining them.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38652794)

- The Fourier transform is a mathematical tool used to convert signals between the time domain and frequency domain, enabling analysis, compression, and filtering.
- It finds applications in image and audio compression, telecommunications, and medical devices like cochlear implants.
- The discussion provides insights into the definition, properties, and intuitive explanations of the Fourier transform and offers additional resources for further understanding.

## [Tips for catching up with AI/ML: From R-CNN to "Attention is All You Need" and beyond](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38652736)

- The individual is interested in re-engaging with machine learning and has compiled a list of topics they want to explore.
- The topics they mentioned include "attention is all you need," qlora, llamas, and q learning.
- They are seeking suggestions for further areas to explore in machine learning.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38652736)

- The conversation is about resources for learning about artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), and deep learning, with an emphasis on practical application and hands-on experience rather than just reading papers.
- Various categories of AI research papers are discussed, along with specific topics and papers within each category.
- There is also a mention of finding and understanding papers in emerging areas of AI, tools for notation explanations, and recommendations for additional learning resources.

## [Kytch uncovers 'smoking gun' email in McDonald's ice cream machine hacking case](https://www.wired.com/story/kytch-taylor-mcdonalds-ice-cream-machine-smoking-gun/)

- Startup Kytch has found an email that they say shows collusion between McDonald's and Taylor, the manufacturer of the ice cream machines Kytch aimed to fix.
- The email, sent by Taylor's CEO, suggests sending a message to McDonald's franchisees to discourage the use of Kytch's device.
- Kytch believes this email is evidence of Taylor's intention to harm a potential competitor and is currently pursuing legal action against Taylor and McDonald's.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38657192)

- Discussions are taking place about various issues related to McDonald's ice cream machines, such as deliberate malfunctions and staffing problems.
- Automation's impact on different types of work is also being discussed, along with the challenges faced by McDonald's employees.
- Complaints have been filed against McDonald's regarding broken ice cream machines, and controversies surrounding the Kytch device have been mentioned, raising questions about the motivations behind the frequent breakdowns.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Exploring Database Fundamentals: ACID Properties, Storage Engines, and Conflict Resolution" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Exploring%20Database%20Fundamentals%3A%20ACID%20Properties%2C%20Storage%20Engines%2C%20and%20Conflict%20Resolution&subheading=Saturday%2C%20December%2016%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
