---
slug: '/2023/12/19'
---

# 2023-12-19

## [Figma and Adobe abandon merger after regulatory review](https://www.figma.com/blog/figma-adobe-abandon-proposed-merger/)

- Figma and Adobe have called off their planned merger after a lengthy regulatory review process.
- Figma will maintain its independent status and is open to exploring partnership opportunities with Adobe.
- Figma has made substantial strides in the past 15 months, with a strong focus on simplifying the design and development of digital products. CEO Dylan Field expressed optimism for the company's future and gratitude for the community's backing.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38681861)

- The potential merger between Figma and Adobe has been called off, leading to discussions on the reasons behind it and its impact on Figma employees.
- The advantages and limitations of design tools like Figma are explored in the conversation, as well as the potential disruption of AI in the design industry.
- The discussion also touches on concerns around consolidation and IPOs in the startup culture, regulatory oversight, long-term sustainability, and the role of antitrust law in digital markets.

## [Wasm3 Enters Maintenance Phase Amidst Russian Invasion](https://github.com/wasm3/wasm3)

- Development of new features for Wasm3, a WebAssembly interpreter, is being temporarily halted as the developer's house was destroyed by Russians invading their country.
- The developer will continue to maintain the project, review and merge Pull Requests.
- Wasm3 is a versatile interpreter that can be used on various platforms and architectures and passes the WebAssembly spec testsuite. It offers advantages in terms of portability, security, executable size, memory usage, and startup latency. It also has potential applications in running WebAssembly on embedded devices. The project is released under The MIT License.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38681672)

- The conversation delves into various subjects pertaining to the Russia-Ukraine conflict, such as Ukrainian history, nationalism, propaganda, resource extraction, economic sanctions, and nuclear weapons.
- It includes debates on whether to support Ukraine, examining Russia's intentions, and discussing different programming languages' effectiveness.
- The conversation also addresses techniques for mitigating resource leaks in code and showcases a wide range of opinions and concerns regarding the ongoing conflict and its consequences.

## ["I just bought a 2024 Chevy Tahoe for $1" - Twitter User's Surprising Car Purchase](https://twitter.com/ChrisJBakke/status/1736533308849443121)

- Twitter user Chris Bakke alleges that he has acquired a 2024 Chevy Tahoe for a mere $1.
- The claim implies that Bakke may have obtained the vehicle through a highly unconventional or potentially erroneous means.
- It remains unclear whether the claim is legitimate or if it is merely a social media fabrication.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38681450)

- The discussion revolves around the issues and limitations of chatbots in customer service, including legal concerns, company responsibilities, and worries about manipulation and dishonesty.
- Views on chatbot effectiveness vary when compared to human representatives, with some participants sharing negative experiences with customer support.
- Topics such as language variation, automation in customer service, and the use of AI language models are also discussed, and alternative solutions are suggested.

## [Author's MacBook Locked, Tim Cook Unlocks It](https://www.tokyodev.com/articles/unbricking-my-macbook-took-an-email-to-tim-cook)

- The author's MacBook was returned to them with an Activation Lock, preventing access to the device.
- Apple initially refused to unlock the MacBook, but the author reached out to Tim Cook via email and ultimately got it unlocked.
- The MacBook had been wiped and reported as lost by a newly created iCloud account, suggesting it may have been taken to a shop, reset, and reported as lost to extort money.
- The author highlights the need for Apple to revise their setup workflow to better communicate the consequences of not setting up FindMy, as unscrupulous shops could exploit this situation.
- The author reported this issue to Apple Security Research but it was dismissed.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38691025)

- The discussions revolve around device security, ownership, and customer support, with a focus on Apple products.
- Users express frustration with Apple's control over their devices, while some appreciate the anti-theft features.
- Suggestions are proposed for enhancing security measures and finding a balance between theft prevention and user requirements.

## [New Word2Vec Models Outperform Previous Approaches](https://openreview.net/forum?id=idpCdOWtqXd60)

- This paper presents two novel model architectures for generating word representations in vector space, utilizing large datasets.
- The authors showcase noteworthy enhancements in accuracy while minimizing computational resource requirements.
- The vector representations achieved state-of-the-art performance in measuring word similarities, demonstrating their effectiveness.
- The authors intend to make their test set available to other researchers for further exploration.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38684925)

- The summary explores various aspects related to Word2Vec, academic conferences, peer review, and standardized interviews in the context of scientific research.
- It addresses the challenges faced in the research field, including limitations in publishing systems and criticisms of the AI field.
- The summary emphasizes the significance of clarity and rigor in research, highlights biases in paper reviewing, and advocates for a more open and collaborative research environment.

## [VW responds to complaints with reintroduction of physical buttons in cars](https://www.thedrive.com/news/vw-is-putting-buttons-back-in-cars-because-people-complained-enough)

- Volkswagen is responding to customer and critic complaints about frustrating touchscreen controls by reintroducing physical buttons in its cars' interiors.
- The decision is based on feedback and aims to address the finicky and non-functional nature of the current touch sliders.
- The addition of physical controls for HVAC and window functions is expected to enhance the overall user experience, while touchscreens will still be present.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38686967)

- The debate centers around the choice between physical buttons and touchscreens in cars and appliances, with users expressing preferences for each option.
- Users appreciate the intuitive and consistent experience offered by physical buttons, while others value the simplicity and sleekness of touchscreens.
- Frustrations arise from poorly designed interfaces and emphasize the need for a balance between aesthetics and functionality. Specific car models like Mazda and Tesla are mentioned, with users calling for customizable and user-friendly interfaces. Ultimately, there is agreement that consumer feedback and preferences should drive design decisions in the automotive industry.

## [Progress towards a Rust compiler integrated with GCC](https://lwn.net/SubscriberLink/954787/41470c731eda02a4/)

- The gccrs project is working to create a Rust compiler for inclusion in the GCC 14 release, targeting Rust version 1.49.
- The project is currently focused on supporting the compilation of core and alloc crates, but faces challenges with macro resolution and decorator macros.
- This project aims to enable Rust code to be compiled using GCC, which contributes to the development of Rust and supports embedded systems. Another advanced project, rustc_codegen_gcc, already allows Rust to be compiled for Linux without patches, and the discussion includes integrating Polonius in the Rust compiler and the benefits of implementing a GCC-based Rust compiler such as bug exposure and bootstrapping.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38684102)

- The development of gccrs, a GCC-based Rust compiler, is being discussed in the tech community.
- There is a debate about having multiple Rust implementations, with some arguing it can help uncover bugs and improve the language, while others are concerned about compatibility and duplication.
- Compilers face challenges in keeping up with language standards, and using multiple compilers can help improve code quality and detect bugs. The conversation also explores the need for a formal specification for Rust and the potential benefits and drawbacks of standardization.

## [I Love Ruby: Embracing Joy and Community in Programming](https://eliseshaffer.com/2023/12/18/i-love-ruby/)

- The author highlights their affection for the Ruby programming language and addresses the criticisms it has received in recent times.
- They emphasize Ruby's emphasis on promoting programmer happiness and its expressiveness.
- The author also talks about how Ruby feels personalized to them and highlights the strong sense of community within the Ruby community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38688453)

- Participants discuss various aspects of the Ruby programming language, including its expressiveness, readability, and complexity.
- The conversation explores the use of metaprogramming and abstraction in the Rails framework and compares Ruby to other languages like Python and Java.
- The merits and drawbacks of Ruby are examined, including scalability issues and type-hinting capabilities, as well as the importance of developer experience, language popularity, and the use of domain-specific languages (DSLs).
- There are differing opinions on whether comments are necessary in Ruby code, with some arguing for their importance in providing context and explanation, while others believe they are unnecessary when the code is clear.
- No meaningful content.

## [The Thrifty Web: Embracing Affordable and Sustainable Design](https://potato.cheap)

- The article highlights the concept of the "cheap" web, promoting affordable and sustainable web design.
- It emphasizes the importance of supporting creators and honest architecture in HTML/CSS.
- The article addresses various challenges faced by the web, including impersonal platforms, difficulty in finding quality content, spam, JavaScript, images, accessibility, payments, and centralized platforms. It advocates for a web that is cheap to maintain, access, participate in, explore, and contribute to.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38681437)

- The discussions cover a wide variety of topics related to web and internet usage, including user control over book appearance, web browsing complexity, accessing medical records online, web development frustrations, and alternatives to popular social media platforms.
- Users share their opinions and suggestions on these topics, creating a diverse range of perspectives.
- There is a need for a simpler and more user-friendly web standard, highlighting the challenges and limitations of the current web paradigm.

## [Using PostgREST and htmx to Create an HTML To-Do List Application](https://postgrest.org/en/stable/how-tos/providing-html-content-using-htmx.html)

- The tutorial demonstrates how to build a to-do list app using PostgREST and the htmx library with HTML content.
- It provides step-by-step instructions for configuring the app, creating HTML responses, and performing actions like listing, creating, editing, and deleting to-dos.
- The tutorial also covers functions and endpoints for modifying and deleting to-dos in the database.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38687997)

- Users are divided in their opinion on the PostgREST framework for creating HTML content using Htmx, with some finding it limited and lacking support while others view it as a crucial component of the Supabase platform.
- The discussion explores the simplification of web development stacks and the challenges of using open source databases and serverless lambdas, along with alternative technologies like Astor and HTMX.
- Debate revolves around the use of PostgREST for web development, input validation, security mechanisms, and using SQL functions and libraries to template HTML. The use of Postgres for serving assets and the advantages of object storage are also discussed.

## [Visual Introductions to Calculus Concepts: Derivatives, Integrals, and More](https://www.3blue1brown.com/topics/calculus)

- This compilation offers visual introductions to core concepts in calculus, making them more accessible and intuitive through geometric and intuitive perspectives.
- Topics covered include derivatives, integrals, limits, the chain rule, exponential functions, implicit differentiation, L'Hôpital's rule, and more.
- The compilation also explores inverse relationships between derivatives and integration, higher order derivatives, Taylor series, and alternative ways to visualize derivatives.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38687809)

- The post explores different YouTube math channels, with an emphasis on the popular and highly acclaimed 3Blue1Brown channel.
- It discusses the effectiveness and praise of 3Blue1Brown's explanations and teaching methods.
- Other math channels and resources are recommended, and there is a mention of Golay codes and their connection to mathematical objects.
- The post also emphasizes the importance of intuition and understanding in mathematics and mentions the impact of COVID-19 lockdown measures.

## [Fly.io Unveils Fly Kubernetes: A New Approach to Kubernetes Orchestration](https://fly.io/blog/fks/)

- Fly.io, a cloud infrastructure provider, has introduced a new offering called Fly Kubernetes (FKS) that supports Kubernetes (K8s).
- FKS is an implementation of Kubernetes that runs on top of Fly.io's platform.
- Fly.io's unique approach to global orchestration involves using a market-based system instead of global consensus.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38685393)

- The discussion covers various topics related to Kubernetes, including different options, benefits, and drawbacks.
- Users discuss the features and pricing of GKE Autopilot and Fly Kubernetes.
- Discussions also include the implementation, functionality, challenges, and feedback regarding Fly Kubernetes in a cloud environment.
- Topics like virtual-kubelet, sidecars, and the use of Kubernetes in different environments are explored.
- Users express concerns about data loss, stability, scalability, and compatibility with other systems.
- Some users appreciate the simplicity and reliability of Kubernetes, while others consider alternative solutions.
- The need for clear communication, standardization, and a unified solution is mentioned.

## [Servo Project Surpasses 1000 Pull Requests, Sets Ambitious Goals for 2024](https://servo.org/blog/2023/12/18/this-year-in-servo/)

- The Servo project has seen significant progress in 2023, with an increase in contributors, pull requests, and commits compared to the previous year.
- The project has been featured in multiple conferences and has made advancements in its layout engine, including improved support for various features.
- Pass rates in the Web Platform Tests have also shown improvement.
- Future plans for the project include maintaining Servo, releasing nightlies on Android, and implementing tables and better support for floats and non-Latin text.
- Potential sponsors are invited to support the development of the project.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38681463)

- The Servo project is a browser engine developed by Mozilla to enhance browser engine diversity, but further development has been dropped by Mozilla.
- Users discuss dissatisfaction with Mozilla and propose alternative browser options to challenge Google's dominance in the market.
- The discussion covers Servo's capabilities, embedding potential, and comparisons to other browser options like PWA, Electron, Tauri, and neutralino.js.

## [Facebook's Flood of AI-Generated Stolen Images Ignites Concerns](https://www.404media.co/facebook-is-being-overrun-with-stolen-ai-generated-images-that-people-think-are-real/)

- AI-generated content on Facebook, including stolen images, is being posted as real, without proper measures to identify it as AI-generated.
- Popular and engaging AI-generated posts receive spam links in the comment sections.
- Facebook's inadequate response and lack of measures leave users unprepared for the influx of AI-generated content, raising concerns about nonconsensual imagery and disinformation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38684309)

- The prevalence of AI-generated images, scams, and deepfake videos on platforms like Facebook is a significant concern.
- There is a debate about who should take responsibility for addressing these issues and the potential impact of regulation on competition.
- Discussions also focus on the sustainability of the content market, the role of ads, and the willingness of users to pay for content.

## [Apple Ceases Sales of Apple Watch Series 9 and Ultra 2 in US](https://9to5mac.com/2023/12/18/apple-halting-apple-watch-series-9-and-apple-watch-ultra-2-sales/)

- Apple is discontinuing the sales of the Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple Watch Ultra 2 in the US.
- The reason for this discontinuation is not mentioned in the article.
- It is unclear if Apple plans to release a new version of the Apple Watch in the near future.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38682631)

- Apple is being sued by Masimo for allegedly infringing on patents related to biometric monitoring technology in the Apple Watch.
- The lawsuit claims that Apple hired Masimo employees and acquired their technology without forming a partnership.
- There are debates about the validity of the patents and concerns about the patent system, as well as discussions on Apple's aggressive use of patents and legal battles with other companies.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Figma and Adobe abandon merger after regulatory review" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Figma%20and%20Adobe%20abandon%20merger%20after%20regulatory%20review&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20December%2019%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
