---
slug: '/2023/12/20'
---

# 2023-12-20

## [Simulating Real-Time Fluids, Fire, and Smoke with GPUs](https://andrewkchan.dev/posts/fire.html)

- This article provides an overview of simulating fluids like fire and smoke in real-time using GPUs.
- It explores topics such as advection, fluid dynamics, and the Navier-Stokes equations.
- The article discusses algorithms for solving the Poisson equation for pressure and provides pseudocode examples for GPU implementation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38698907)

- The article delves into the use of vorticity confinement and curl-noise turbulence in fluid simulations in computer graphics.
- It highlights the limitations of game engines in simulating light and emphasizes the significance of visually appealing graphics over strict physical accuracy.
- Topics like computational fluid dynamics, GPU utilization in rendering, and potential advancements in GPU technology are also discussed.

## [Microsoft.com DNS Record Reveals New IP Address: 192.168.1.1](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38702783)

- The "nslookup" command is used to query and retrieve IP addresses associated with a specific domain.
- When the user runs the "nslookup" command on the domain "microsoft.com," it returns multiple IP addresses that are associated with that domain.
- This means that microsoft.com is hosted on multiple servers, each with its own unique IP address.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38702783)

- Discussions are taking place regarding Microsoft.com and DNS-related concerns.
- Topics of concern include phishing attempts, security risks related to private IP addresses in DNS records, and the scalability of exploits.
- Suggestions are being made for countermeasures, workflow improvements, failsafe mechanisms for junior employees, and DNS rebinding protection. There are also criticisms of Microsoft's culture and lack of oversight.

## [Volkswagen Responds to Criticism by Bringing Back Physical Buttons in New Cars](https://insideevs.com/news/701296/vw-physical-controls-to-return/)

- Volkswagen is reintroducing physical buttons in its new cars to address criticism of its complex infotainment operations and lack of buttons.
- The decision is based on customer feedback and aims to enhance usability and user experience.
- The new approach includes a row of physical buttons below the touch screen, a manual volume button, and a large center knob to provide easier and more intuitive controls in the car interiors.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38694886)

- The preference for physical buttons in car controls over touchscreens is being debated due to concerns about distractions and safety while driving.
- Participants emphasize the importance of tactile feedback and ease of use in car controls.
- There are discussions on the effectiveness of touchscreens, the need for regulations, and the potential for combining physical buttons and touchscreens.

## [Beware of USB Type A adapters: A cautionary tale from a cat water fountain owner](https://ounapuu.ee/posts/2023/12/19/spicy-usb-adapter/)

- The author found that the USB power adapter that came with their cat water fountain has a higher voltage output than standard USB type A ports.
- This higher voltage could potentially cause damage to other devices, which explains why their power banks started glitching out.
- The author advises readers to be cautious and not trust USB type A power adapters based on their experience.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38694549)

- Users discuss concerns about certain power adapters and suggest reaching out to trading standards for further action regarding potential hazards.
- The pros and cons of various power connectors, such as USB and barrel plugs, are discussed.
- The importance of certifications and regulations to ensure compatibility and safety, including UL and CE certifications, is highlighted. The dangers of using uncertified devices and voltage fluctuations are also mentioned. The discussion touches on specific devices like the Nintendo Switch and the compatibility of chargers, emphasizing the significance of adhering to standards and regulations to ensure safety and prevent device damage.

## [Improving MySQL: Analyzing Replication Schemes, Storage Engines, and Isolation Levels](https://jepsen.io/analyses/mysql-8.0.34)

- This analysis delves into the world of MySQL, examining replication schemes, storage engines, and SQL isolation levels, with a specific focus on the flaws in the ANSI standards.
- It introduces alternative definitions for isolation levels and explores MySQL's implementation of the Repeatable Read isolation level.
- The article also discusses testing methods, discrepancies in MySQL's behavior and documentation, and instances where consistency models are violated, ultimately emphasizing the importance of precise definitions and enhancements in MySQL.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38695750)

- The discussion on Hacker News encompasses a wide range of topics related to databases and programming languages.
- Topics covered include isolation levels in databases, handling concurrent edits, AWS RDS replication, and the choice of MySQL for new projects.
- The conversation also touches on creating indexes on JSON data in MySQL, the popularity and criticism of PHP, the decline of Ruby, and the growing popularity of TypeScript.

## [The Power of Perspective: Enhancing Games with Parallax Effects](https://simonschreibt.de/gat/dont-starve-diablo-parallax-7/)

- The author explores the use of perspective and parallax effects in video games, specifically in games like Moon Patrol and Diablo 2.
- They discuss how these effects were achieved in 2D games without actual 3D rendering, adding depth and dimension to the gameplay.
- The author also mentions the use of the Mode 7 technique in SNES games and how some games, like Don't Starve, use flat 2D assets to create a unique visual style.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38697000)

- The discussions focus on video game environments, graphics, and technologies, comparing old and modern games.
- Specific examples mentioned include World of Warcraft, Diablo II, DayZ, Final Fantasies IV-VI, and Super Mario Kart.
- The discussions explore topics such as visual effects, gameplay experience, sprite rendering, and the impact of different technologies on gaming.

## [The Disorienting and Fragmented Internet: Understanding the Chaos](https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2023/12/internet-information-trends-virality-tracking/676888/)

- The internet has become disorienting and fragmented, making it challenging to grasp what is happening online.
- Platforms like TikTok and Facebook have witnessed an increase in obscure and unrelated content gaining popularity.
- This fragmented internet creates a lack of understanding about what is genuinely popular and important, leading to reliance on tech giants as information gatekeepers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38697227)

- Personalized algorithms and platforms are leading to the fragmentation of cultural trends and feelings of isolation and disconnectedness in online culture.
- Profit-driven companies are manipulating content, which is impacting cinema attendance and contributing to the decline of the "old internet" and the commercialization of subcultures.
- The influence of algorithmic content curation is debated, with differing viewpoints on its effectiveness and a preference for self-selected content. This raises concerns about free speech, power dynamics on social media platforms, and the impact on society.
- The declining popularity of Twitter, concerns about censorship and information control, and the effects of social media on communication and mental health are also discussed.

## [Lufthansa A350's Oakland diversion sparks debate and frustration](https://onemileatatime.com/news/lufthansa-a350-oakland-diversion/)

- Lufthansa flight from Munich to San Francisco was diverted to Oakland due to the airline's policy prohibiting visual approaches at night.
- The decision caused delays and frustrations for both pilots and air traffic controllers, sparking debates about the controller's decision, the airline's policy, and the relationship between foreign pilots and US air traffic control.
- Passengers are expressing dissatisfaction and raising concerns about compensation for missed flights, shedding light on communication and decision-making challenges between pilots and air traffic control.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38699343)

- A Lufthansa flight was diverted to Oakland due to landing congestion at San Francisco International Airport (SFO), sparking debates about the lack of communication between air traffic control and the flight.
- The incident raises questions about Lufthansa's policy against visual landings at night and the prioritization of safety versus economic factors between Lufthansa and SFO.
- Discussions also encompass air traffic control shortages, pilot qualifications, Congress's role, and challenges faced by SFO, bringing attention to communication issues, safety policies, and the efficacy of aviation systems.

## [DIY Bed Sensors: Enhancing Smart Home Automations with Pressure Mats](https://www.homeautomationguy.io/blog/making-my-own-bed-sensor)

- The author developed bed sensors for their smart home using pressure mats beneath the mattress, initially considering it a gimmick but later finding it useful for automations and avoiding unnecessary ones.
- Two methods are provided for building the sensors: using an Aqara Leak Sensor or an ESP Device with ESPHome firmware.
- The ESPHome bed sensor allows for enhanced accuracy and the option to include multiple sensors for different bed zones, and the author also shares how they combined two bed sensors to suit their specific requirements.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38694880)

- The article discusses challenges and strategies related to failures in home automation systems, specifically focusing on bed sensors, leak sensors, and door/window sensors.
- Various technologies and alternative devices are explored, along with do-it-yourself (DIY) options for home automation.
- The conversation includes experiences with sleep monitoring systems, tracking devices, and home automation projects, covering topics like bed encroachment, mattress weight detection, water leak detectors, and distinguishing between humans and animals for triggering actions.

## [Introducing tsdocs.dev: Browse TypeScript docs for any JavaScript library](https://tsdocs.dev)

- tsdocs.dev is an alpha browse type documentation tool that enables users to access TypeScript documentation for various packages and library versions, including popular npm packages like react-router-dom and @testing-library/react.
- The tool utilizes typedoc and was developed by @pastelskyStar on GitHub.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38697752)

- Tsdocs.dev is a website that offers convenient access to JavaScript library API documentation without the need to install the package beforehand.
- Users can contribute to support server costs and provide feedback on enhancements, such as adding cross-package references and organizing API docs by categories.
- The discussions cover topics like bugs, package organization, error handling, and a comparison with another documentation system, as well as suggestions for improving usability and functionality. Users express appreciation for the tool and advocate for standardized library documentation in the TypeScript ecosystem.

## [Hackers Steal Data of 36M Xfinity Customers in Comcast Security Breach](https://techcrunch.com/2023/12/19/comcast-xfinity-hackers-36-million-customers/)

- Hackers exploited a security vulnerability called "CitrixBleed" to gain access to sensitive information of nearly 36 million Xfinity customers.
- The breach occurred between October 16 and October 19, but the vulnerability has been targeted since late August.
- Customer data, including usernames, hashed passwords, names, contact information, dates of birth, and partial Social Security numbers, may have been compromised. Comcast is requiring customers to reset their passwords and recommending two-factor or multi-factor authentication. It's unclear if a ransom demand was made or if the incident was reported to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38698343)

- Comcast experienced a data breach affecting around 36 million Xfinity customers, potentially prompting customers to consider alternatives due to Comcast's regional monopoly.
- Municipal broadband is being considered as a solution, but concerns exist around other providers' reliability and outdated technology.
- The lack of competition in the ISP market leads to high prices, limited choices, and lack of transparency, with Comcast's lobbying efforts contributing to this issue.

## [Exploring 3.5" Floppy Drive Control with a Teensy4.0 Microcontroller](https://floppy.cafe/)

- This article explains how to use a teensy4.0 microcontroller to bit-bang a 3.5" floppy drive.
- It covers the basics of how floppy disks work, including tracks, sectors, and data storage.
- The article provides a wiring guide and instructions for sending commands to control the floppy drive.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38699201)

- The article provides a comprehensive overview of floppy disk drives, addressing topics such as compatibility issues, limitations, and the use of custom controllers.
- Hardware developers face challenges in the development of floppy drive technologies, particularly in clock recovery and timing.
- The discussion threads cover various aspects, including programming languages, specific platforms like Arduino, and the limitations of standard floppy drives. The potential for increasing the speed of floppy drives and the historical development of floppy disk interfaces are also explored.

## [Introducing Fedora Asahi Remix: Powerful Linux for Apple Silicon Macs](https://asahilinux.org/fedora/)

- The Fedora Asahi Remix is a collaboration between the Asahi Linux project and the Fedora Project, delivering a polished version of Linux for Apple Silicon Macs.
- It offers excellent 64-bit ARM support and a high-quality experience, with the KDE Plasma desktop environment and a seamless Wayland experience.
- It supports various Apple devices, features OpenGL and audio optimization, and is based on the latest Fedora Linux release, providing the best Linux laptop audio experience.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38696612)

- The Asahi Linux project has launched Fedora Asahi Remix, a Linux distribution compatible with Apple's M1 and M1 Pro chips.
- Users are impressed with the device support section on the project's website and are excited about features like Vulkan support and enhanced audio.
- The distribution offers the option to install it alongside macOS, enabling users to dual boot.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Simulating Real-Time Fluids, Fire, and Smoke with GPUs" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Simulating%20Real-Time%20Fluids%2C%20Fire%2C%20and%20Smoke%20with%20GPUs&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20December%2020%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
