---
slug: '/2023/12/21'
---

# 2023-12-21

## [VW, Porsche, and Audi to Adopt Tesla's EV Charging Standard](https://www.theverge.com/2023/12/19/24008426/volkswagen-audi-porsche-tesla-nacs-ev-charging-plug)

- Volkswagen, Porsche, and Audi plan to adopt Tesla's electric vehicle (EV) charging standard, providing access to Tesla's Supercharger network for VW customers.
- The adoption of Tesla's charging plug is expected to be implemented with adapter solutions by 2025.
- Tesla's Supercharger network is renowned for its reliability and availability, making it superior to other third-party charging stations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38709319)

- Volkswagen, Porsche, and Audi will use Tesla's electric vehicle charging plug, despite the absence of a standard protocol for payment and powerline communication in the industry.
- Discussions are ongoing regarding the convenience and security of plug-and-charge systems, with advocates calling for a standard payment method and others raising security concerns.
- There is a need for standardized and user-friendly payment systems for EV charging, with potential solutions including tap-to-pay technology, direct car payments, and QR code payment systems.

## [Implementation of Mamba Architecture in PyTorch for Sequence Modeling](https://github.com/johnma2006/mamba-minimal)

- The post discusses a simplified implementation of Mamba, a sequence modeling technique, using PyTorch.
- The provided implementation produces the same numerical outputs as the official implementation for both forward and backward passes.
- The code is simplified, readable, and annotated, but it does not prioritize speed optimization like the official implementation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38708730)

- Users on Hacker News discuss the implementation of Mamba, a PyTorch library, praising its clean and efficient code as a great alternative to Hugging Face.
- The conversation touches on the use of Fortran in scientific code, highlighting its benefits for numerical tasks and parallelism.
- The Mamba model addresses state space models with a selection mechanism based on input, and the discussion explores hardware efficiency, new architectures, and potential applications. It also mentions knowledge distillation and the Minimum Description Length principle.

## [PowerInfer: High-Speed Large Language Model Serving on Consumer GPUs](https://github.com/SJTU-IPADS/PowerInfer)

- PowerInfer is a fast inference engine for Large Language Models (LLMs) that can run on consumer-grade GPUs.
- It optimizes efficiency by leveraging activation locality, using adaptive predictors and neuron-aware sparse operators.
- PowerInfer achieves high token generation rates, outperforms existing models, and maintains accuracy. It supports local deployment and is designed for low-latency inference. Code and data will be released gradually, and citations and acknowledgment are encouraged.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38708585)

- The Hacker News discussion delves into various subjects, including optimization techniques for large language models and the legal implications of computational regulations.
- The harms linked to ads and rewards in mobile games, as well as the usage of dual GPU setups for gaming and AI, are also discussed.
- Other topics include the PowerInfer project for accelerating deep learning models, the llama.cpp library for matrix calculations, debates about CPU-only solutions, and references to Microsoft's Power-related products and the acquisition of PowerPoint.

## [Wireflow: Create User Flow Prototypes Easily with this Open Source Tool](https://wireflow.co)

- Wireflow is a free and open-source tool that allows users to create user flow prototypes.
- It offers real-time collaboration, project permissions, and a built-in live chat.
- The interface is user-friendly and does not require Photoshop skills.
- Wireflow was developed to simplify project planning and brainstorming.
- It is built on the Meteor.js platform and the team includes developers from Serbia, Bangladesh, Finland, and the Philippines.
- The tool may have some bugs but is fully open source.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38710030)

- Wireflow is a free, online, open source tool for creating user-flow prototypes, but it hasn't been updated on GitHub for years, raising concerns about its maintenance.
- Users are discussing alternative wireflow tools like Excalidraw, Tldraw, and Figma, as well as sharing their experiences and challenges with different wireflow tools in the design process.
- Some users recommend merging Wireflow with another tool, while others express interest in contributing to its development. Overall, there is a mixed response to Wireflow and ongoing discussions about its functionalities and usefulness.

## [Protein ENPP1 Uncovered as Key Player in Breast Cancer Metastasis](https://news.stanford.edu/2023/12/20/breast-cancer-metastasis-off-switch-revealed/)

- Researchers have identified a protein called ENPP1 that controls the metastasis of breast cancer.
- High levels of ENPP1 are associated with resistance to immunotherapy and an increased risk of metastasis.
- This discovery could lead to the development of better immunotherapies and help predict patient responses to current treatments. Additionally, targeting ENPP1 may enhance the effectiveness of existing therapies. ENPP1 may also be relevant in other "cold" tumors like lung and pancreatic cancer.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38715230)

- Researchers at Stanford University and the University of California, San Francisco have discovered a potential "on/off switch" for breast cancer metastasis in mice, which could have significant implications for breast cancer treatment.
- Another study has identified a correlation between the ENPP1 protein and resistance to immunotherapy in breast cancer metastasis, offering the potential for new targeted therapies.
- There is ongoing debate about the relevance and significance of these findings, with concerns raised about potential biases among the researchers. Additionally, the limitations of using mice as models in cancer research are acknowledged, highlighting the challenges faced.

## [Enhance iMessage Security with Key Verification](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/HT213465)

- iMessage Contact Key Verification is a security feature offered by Apple to ensure the authenticity of iMessage conversations.
- Users can manually verify contacts by comparing verification codes or use public verification codes shared by contacts.
- It is important to have a compatible software version and the necessary settings enabled for this feature to work. Users can check the verification status in Conversation Details and can reach out to Apple for assistance if there are any issues.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38714674)

- Apple has introduced iMessage Key Verification, allowing users to verify the identity of their contacts.
- Concerns are raised regarding user adoption and the potential inconvenience of the verification process.
- The importance of verifying encryption keys and the risks of targeted attacks are discussed.
- Government surveillance and its impact on encryption tool usage are debated.
- Regularly updating operating systems is crucial to avoid zero-day exploits.
- Android devices are considered vulnerable, and the normalizing of warrantless surveillance is debated.
- Some users express frustration with Apple's policy and suggest third-party alternatives for encryption key verification.
- The implementation of the verification method on Apple's platform is discussed, along with concerns about user experience and potential drawbacks.
- The security and encryption of iMessage and iCloud Keychain are touched upon.
- Overall, there is dissatisfaction with Apple's approach to security and account management.

## [OpenPipe's Mistral 7B Fine-Tune Optimized: A Powerful Alternative to GPT-4](https://openpipe.ai/blog/mistral-7b-fine-tune-optimized)

- OpenPipe has developed Mistral 7B Fine-Tune Optimized, a model that surpasses GPT-4 in customer tasks.
- Mistral Fine-Tune Optimized is more compact and efficient as it is specifically fine-tuned for particular tasks, unlike GPT-4, which is a general-purpose model.
- The merge of the top-performing Mistral variants forms the base model, which was validated on a new customer dataset and is now available for free on Hugging Face and as the default base model for OpenPipe.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38712802)

- The article discusses the concept of model merging in deep learning and its benefits and challenges.
- It references a study on sparse fine-tuning and preservation of parameters.
- The discussion includes the development and performance of a language model called Mistral, as well as the uses and benefits of private language models.
- Potential applications of GPT models in various industries are explored.
- Debates about cost, quality, trust, and data sharing with OpenAI are highlighted.
- The need for a new base model called OpenPipe for fine-tuning is discussed.
- Fine-tuning language models on large PDF documents is mentioned.
- The potential capabilities of GPT-4 and the need for tangible evidence and qualitative approaches in evaluating language models are also discussed.

## [Finding the shortest paths: GitHub's navigation quest](https://www.sixdegreesofwikipedia.com/)

- The blog on GitHub is centered around the concept of finding the shortest paths between two locations.
- The focus is on the practical application of this concept and providing useful information to the readers.
- The blog aims to help individuals navigate efficiently and make informed decisions when determining the most efficient routes.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38713167)

- The website "Six Degrees of Wikipedia" is currently unavailable due to high traffic and outdated data.
- The creator of the website also mentioned a new AI email app called Shortwave, which has received mixed feedback.
- The discussion on Hacker News centers around users' experiences with Six Degrees of Wikipedia, related projects and games, and the challenges and limitations of navigating Wikipedia, including the popular game "Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon."

## [Replicate Windows 7 look and feel with AeroThemePlasma](https://gitgud.io/wackyideas/aerothemeplasma)

- The AeroThemePlasma project is a KDE Plasma theme designed to mimic the appearance of Windows 7.
- It has gained popularity with 6 stars and 73 commits, indicating active development and interest from the community.
- The project storage is relatively large, at 125.8 MiB, suggesting it may contain various resources such as images and icons.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38711003)

- The KDE Plasma forum is a platform for users to discuss and share their thoughts on different themes and aesthetic qualities of Windows versions and desktop environments.
- Some users express nostalgia for older Windows designs, while others appreciate the customization and usability of open-source tools like KDE Plasma.
- The discussion also covers topics like alternative file explorers, tab bar tools, and the limitations of Linux theming compared to classic Mac OS theming.

## [The Impact of Snowden's Revelations: Challenges and Advances in Online Privacy](https://blog.torproject.org/tor-in-2023/)

- Edward Snowden's disclosures about mass surveillance have had a profound impact on public awareness of online privacy.
- Government and corporate privacy breaches can manipulate public opinion and influence important societal decisions.
- The shift in perception has sparked increased customer demand for stronger privacy protection and led to the creation of legislation granting consumers more control over their data.
- Despite some tech companies marketing privacy as a priority, their underlying business models still focus on data collection.
- The Tor Project is featured as an example of technology that prioritizes privacy, but challenges remain in safeguarding online privacy and advancing human rights in the digital realm.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38711007)

- The discussion centers around different aspects of online privacy, including popular tools like Tor, HTTPS encryption, DNSSEC, and data encryption.
- There is a debate about the effectiveness and security of various methods, such as HTTPS-everywhere and Tor, with concerns about government surveillance and potential vulnerabilities.
- Alternative networks like I2P and Freenet are mentioned as alternatives to Tor, while trustworthiness of the US government and concerns about law enforcement targeting smaller crimes are also addressed. The role of the CPU in storing and transmitting information is questioned as well.

## [Introducing Catalyst: A Tailwind CSS Application UI Kit](https://tailwindui.com/templates/catalyst)

- Tailwind UI has released Catalyst, a React UI kit that provides modern application UI components.
- Catalyst includes templates and documentation, enabling developers to easily incorporate customizable UI components into their projects.
- The UI kit is built with Tailwind CSS, Headless UI, and React, following industry best practices and ensuring accessibility. It can be purchased for lifetime access and updates. Tailwind UI also offers website templates and component examples separately.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38716032)

- The discussion revolves around Tailwind CSS, its UI kits, and other similar UI libraries, with mixed opinions on pricing, completeness, and usefulness.
- Some users find value and are satisfied with paying for these libraries, while others prefer free alternatives or seek more flexibility.
- The conversation addresses the importance of supporting creators and the challenges of integrating different frameworks, and also explores specific UI libraries like Catalyst and Flowbite, as well as alternative tools like Tabler and HTMX.

## [Legal Battle Erupts Over Paraquat Herbicide: Workers Allege Parkinson's Disease](https://www.latimes.com/environment/story/2023-12-20/california-workers-say-herbicide-is-giving-them-parkinsons)

- Former Eastern Municipal Water District worker, Gary Mund, is suing Syngenta, alleging that exposure to the herbicide paraquat caused his Parkinson's disease.
- Paraquat is banned in 58 countries but still widely used in the US, raising concerns about its potential health risks.
- Studies have indicated that paraquat can replicate the symptoms of Parkinson's disease in animals, although Syngenta disputes any causal connection. Advocacy groups like Earthjustice and the Michael J. Fox Foundation are calling for a ban on paraquat due to these potential risks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38716390)

- Some US workers are linking their development of Parkinson's disease to a banned weed killer used in the country, sparking a debate about harmful effects of chemicals.
- Historical examples are cited to emphasize the lack of concern for health risks associated with certain substances.
- The conversation touches on potential risks of specific diets, the role of journalists in presenting objective information, and the safety of the pesticide Paraquat, while also sharing personal experiences with family health issues.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="VW, Porsche, and Audi to Adopt Tesla's EV Charging Standard" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=VW%2C%20Porsche%2C%20and%20Audi%20to%20Adopt%20Tesla's%20EV%20Charging%20Standard&subheading=Thursday%2C%20December%2021%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
