---
slug: '/2023/12/22'
---

# 2023-12-22

## [ArXiv improves accessibility with HTML versions for research papers](https://blog.arxiv.org/2023/12/21/accessibility-update-arxiv-now-offers-papers-in-html-format/)

- ArXiv is now generating HTML versions of research papers submitted in TeX/LaTeX to improve accessibility for users with disabilities.
- The HTML format is compatible with screen readers and other assistive technologies used by researchers with reading disabilities.
- The HTML conversion is still in the experimental phase and may not accurately convert every paper, but authors are encouraged to review and improve the rendering.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38724665)

- ArXiv has introduced HTML format for scientific papers, making them more accessible on mobile devices and receiving positive feedback for its dark mode and pleasant formatting.
- There is a debate surrounding whether authors should be allowed to upload their own HTML versions due to concerns about security and consistency.
- Discussions are being held on the need for improved accessibility features like direct citation links and discussion boards, as well as solutions for blind individuals and mathematical braille typesetting.

## [Support Heroes: Saluting Those Working Around the Clock to Keep Systems Running](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38725015)

- The author expresses gratitude towards someone for their efforts in maintaining the availability and safety of systems.
- The author recounts a personal experience where they had to travel to a data center in New Jersey during a holiday to address an urgent production bug.
- This highlights the dedication and commitment required to ensure the smooth operation of critical systems, even in challenging circumstances.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38725015)

- The discussion encompasses a wide range of topics, such as the importance of owning up to mistakes, cultural variations in expressing apologies, and the challenges of technical support and customer service.
- The difficulties encountered during the holiday season and the impact of software updates and rollouts are also discussed.
- Other points include the experience of being on-call for work and the significance of stability, gratitude, and problem-solving across various industries.

## [Apple's HotspotHelper API Enables Location Tracking Without User Consent for Almost a Decade](https://wingu.se/2023/11/30/only-apple-can-do-allow-apps-tracking-users-location-without-consensus.html)

- Apple has allowed apps to track user locations without their consent or knowledge for almost a decade through the HotspotHelper API, raising privacy concerns.
- Major apps like WeChat and Alipay have already implemented this capability, intensifying the impact of location tracking without consent.
- It is recommended that Apple provide users with the option to disable this feature and require explicit permission for location tracking, while the question remains whether Apple can balance privacy and address these concerns.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38720656)

- The discussion addresses multiple topics including app permissions, mobile usage in Asia, and concerns about privacy and control in centralized superapps.
- Users express worries about location tracking permissions in iOS apps like WeChat and Alipay.
- The conversation explores the prevalence of mobile super-apps in the Chinese market, with differing opinions on connectivity and privacy implications.

## [Beeper challenges Apple's interference with their app](https://blog.beeper.com/p/beeper-moving-forward)

- Apple is reportedly interfering with Beeper's Beeper Mini feature, prompting Beeper to make their iMessage connection software open source and focusing on building the best chat app.
- Beeper claims that its app is secure and actually enhances the security of chats between iPhone and Android users by implementing end-to-end encryption.
- Beeper criticizes Apple's claims and suggests that Apple is blocking Beeper Mini to the detriment of their own customers, while questioning their plans to support RCS and expressing concerns about Apple's control over iMessage due to its dominant market position.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38722246)

- Beeper has released its iMessage connector as an open-source project, potentially impacting the cost of password testing.
- Samsung and Google may leverage Beeper's code to challenge Apple's closed ecosystem, leading to debates on network interoperability, privacy, and security.
- The controversy revolves around Beeper's legality, its potential to provoke a lawsuit from Apple, and the implications of forced interoperability on messaging app alternatives and Apple's iMessage platform.

## [Create Authentic Fantasy Maps with Free Brush Sets from #NoBadMaps](https://kmalexander.com/free-stuff/fantasy-map-brushes/)

- The #NoBadMaps project provides free brushes and tools for creating fantasy maps with historical accuracy.
- The brush sets are inspired by different time periods and aesthetics, offering unique elements and styles for creating distinct maps.
- All brushes are freely available for use and are released under a CC0 License, with support generated through purchases, donations, and Patreon contributions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38720412)

- Users are discussing the use of brush sets for drawing fantasy maps and sharing various tools and techniques, including the website Fantasy Map Brushes.
- The creator of Here Dragons Abound has a related blog and open source project on mapping and world building.
- There is a desire among users for a web-based map-drawing tool with different features, and one mentioned tool is Inkarnate, which offers a user-friendly interface and a free version. The use of brush sets in Inkarnate helps save time and maintain a consistent aesthetic style while filling in repetitive shapes on a map.

## [Google OAuth: Uncovering Its Partial Breakdown](https://trufflesecurity.com/blog/google-oauth-is-broken-sort-of/)

- The blog addresses concerns regarding Google OAuth and points out that it is partially broken.
- The specifics of how it is broken are not mentioned in the text.
- The blog serves as a means to bring attention to the issues and potential limitations of Google OAuth.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38720544)

- The discussion revolves around the issues and vulnerabilities associated with Google OAuth, OpenID Connect, and authentication systems that use email addresses as user identifiers.
- Concerns are raised about the complexity, security, and verification processes of these systems.
- Suggestions are made to improve security and user experience, such as implementing confirmation emails, exploring alternative authentication methods (like U2F or passkeys), and considering stable identifiers like GUIDs.

## [German Court Upholds User's Right to Use Adblockers](https://fsfe.org/news/2023/news-20231220-01.sl.html)

- Two recent court cases in Germany have focused on the battle for user control over technology, specifically in relation to adblockers.
- Axel Springer SE, a major publishing company, sued Eyeo GmbH, the creator of Adblock Plus, for blocking their advertisements.
- The court ruled in favor of Eyeo, affirming that users have the right to decide whether or not to use adblockers and that it does not violate copyright laws. However, Axel Springer was allowed to exclude users with adblockers from accessing their content and potentially implement a paid model.
- These cases establish important legal precedents regarding user freedom and the right to make individual choices while using the internet.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38726389)

- The discussion focuses on the use of ad blockers and whether users should have the right to block ads and control their online experience.
- Content providers argue for their right to control access to their content and determine how it is displayed.
- The conversation also considers the possibility of an ad-free internet, the impact on websites and content creators, and alternative business models like subscriptions. Privacy, malware, and the power of internet giants are additional concerns.

## [Pharmacists' Research Exposes Ineffectiveness of Oral Phenylephrine, Prompts FDA Action](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/how-two-pharmacists-figured-out-that-decongestants-dont-work/)

- FDA regulations contained a loophole that allowed ineffective OTC decongestant drugs to be approved and sold to consumers.
- It took more than ten years for the FDA to agree with the findings of two pharmacists who conducted research and petitioned for the removal of products containing oral phenylephrine from shelves.
- This case highlights the necessity of reevaluating the regulatory process for pre-1962 approved OTC drugs and allocating additional funding for independent research on these products. Consumers are also encouraged to consult with pharmacists and advocate for modern scientific reviews of older OTC products.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38720248)

- The discussion centers on the effectiveness and controversies surrounding medications like phenylephrine and pseudoephedrine.
- Participants express frustration with medication availability and restrictions, emphasizing the importance of scientific evidence and individual experiences.
- The conversation highlights the complexities and diverse perspectives regarding medication effectiveness, underscoring the need for additional research and regulation.

## [ProPublica's Nursing Home Inspect Tool Reveals Ownership Details for Quality of Care Responsibility](https://www.propublica.org/article/find-nursing-home-ownership-information)

- ProPublica's Nursing Home Inspect tool now includes detailed ownership information to help identify those responsible for nursing home care quality.
- The tool utilizes data from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, providing ownership details, managerial control, and performance tracking of affiliated entities across multiple nursing homes.
- Users can utilize advanced search capabilities to identify entities with past deficiencies or compliance issues.
- ProPublica has plans to further improve the tool by adding new data and features in the future.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38725264)

- There is an ongoing debate about the level of government involvement in the nursing home industry.
- Participants express concerns about poor staffing, overbilling, lack of supervision, and the need for better regulation in eldercare.
- The discussion highlights the challenges of evaluating nursing home performance and finding reliable options.

## [Pharmacies Hand Over Medical Records Without Warrants, Congress Investigates](https://arstechnica.com/science/2023/12/cvs-rite-aid-walgreens-hand-out-medical-records-to-cops-without-warrants/)

- Major pharmacy chains in the US, including CVS, Rite Aid, and Walgreens, are providing law enforcement agencies with sensitive medical records without a warrant or legal review.
- Lawmakers are calling on the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to revise health privacy laws to require warrants for the release of medical records.
- The congressional investigation found that CVS, The Kroger Company, and Rite Aid Corporation do not consult legal professionals before sharing medical records, and lawmakers are urging pharmacies to adopt practices similar to tech companies, such as requiring warrants and publishing annual transparency reports to safeguard customer privacy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38719918)

- Police are obtaining medical records without a warrant, posing challenges for pharmacy staff in complying or resisting these requests.
- Nurses and pharmacists face pressure to perform procedures without proper authorization, highlighting the lack of accountability for law enforcement.
- The importance of pharmacist intervention, privacy concerns, and the need for respectful dialogue on contentious matters like abortion are discussed. Additionally, the effectiveness of certain medications, limitations on their availability, and difficulties in obtaining prescriptions are debated.
- The conversation underscores the importance of police accountability, digital privacy laws, and reforms in healthcare and policing systems.

## [Rust progresses towards enabling `async fn` in traits with upcoming release 1.75](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2023/12/21/async-fn-rpit-in-traits.html)

- The Rust Async Working Group has made progress in enabling the use of `async fn` in traits.
- The upcoming Rust 1.75 release will include support for `-> impl Trait` notation and `async fn` in traits.
- Limitations still exist in using `-> impl Trait` in public traits, as additional bounds cannot be added to the return type.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38721039)

- Rust programming language has made significant progress in stabilizing features related to async programming.
- The discussion emphasizes the need for simplifying the usability of these features and standardizing IO/time interfaces.
- Concerns have been raised about wastefulness, implicit allocations, non-heap allocation, and the use of third-party libraries.
- The #[async_trait] attribute is highlighted as a helpful tool for dynamic dispatch in Rust.

## [Google's "Privacy Sandbox" in Chrome: How to Disable Ad Tracking](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2023/09/how-turn-googles-privacy-sandbox-ad-tracking-and-why-you-should)

- Google has launched "Privacy Sandbox" in Chrome to replace third-party cookies with "Topics" for tracking users' internet activity.
- Topics generate advertising categories based on visited websites, granting Google control over the advertising ecosystem.
- While Google claims this enhances privacy, browsing habits are still tracked for targeted ads. Privacy Sandbox will be tested until 2024, so third-party cookies will collect and share data in the meantime. Chrome's ad privacy controls allow users to disable Privacy Sandbox. Firefox and Safari provide more privacy options.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38728278)

- The article and discussion highlight privacy concerns regarding Google's ad tracking practices and recommend using alternative browsers like Firefox as a solution.
- There is a debate surrounding Google's control over the web and the potential drawbacks of relying on a single company.
- Topics such as the sustainability of advertising without tracking, using different browsers for personal and work purposes, and concerns about Google's data sharing practices are also discussed. The focus is on privacy, browser choice, and the impact of targeted ads on user experience.

## [Apple Aims to Boost AI Efficiency on Smartphones, Potential Rival to Competitors](https://arstechnica.com/apple/2023/12/apple-wants-ai-to-run-directly-on-its-hardware-instead-of-in-the-cloud/)

- Apple has released a research paper called "LLM in a Flash" outlining their efforts to run large language models (LLMs) on smartphones rather than in the cloud.
- This approach aims to overcome the computational limitations of smartphones and enable faster and offline responses from AI assistants like Siri.
- By prioritizing on-device AI, Apple could potentially enhance privacy and compete with other tech giants in the AI industry. Other smartphone manufacturers, including Samsung, are also exploring AI integration to revitalize the declining smartphone market.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38725167)

- Apple is committed to bringing artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities directly to its hardware to prioritize user privacy and deliver a personalized AI experience.
- Users are generally happy with on-device image description and search features in Apple's Photos app, but there are limitations with non-Latin alphabets.
- The discussion includes debates about Apple's privacy-focused approach, the potential drawbacks of AI language models replacing search, technical challenges of running machine learning on Apple devices, and the limitations of Siri.

## [New York files lawsuit against SiriusXM over cancellation process](https://www.theverge.com/2023/12/21/24010975/siriusxm-lawsuit-new-york-tish-james-cancel)

- SiriusXM is facing a lawsuit filed by the state of New York over allegations of making it challenging for subscribers to cancel their plans.
- The lawsuit claims that the company intentionally creates a lengthy and frustrating process for customers.
- New York's attorney general is seeking damages for affected customers and penalties for each violation.
- SiriusXM has responded, stating that the allegations misrepresent their practices, and they plan to defend themselves vigorously.
- The company has been focusing on podcasting and recently launched an updated app.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38722911)

- The summarized text covers discussions on various topics including subscription cancellations, difficulties in the cancellation process, and frustrations with service providers.
- Specific companies like SiriusXM and LA Fitness are mentioned in relation to customer experiences.
- Broader topics such as privacy, legislation, and customer compensation are also discussed, along with issues related to dual video cards on laptops and the influence of capitalist company policies on employees.

## [SMTP Smuggling: Sending Spoofed Emails Globally](https://sec-consult.com/blog/detail/smtp-smuggling-spoofing-e-mails-worldwide/)

- Researchers have discovered an attack technique called SMTP smuggling that allows threat actors to send fake emails from any email address using vulnerable SMTP servers.
- Vulnerabilities in Microsoft and GMX have been patched, but companies using Cisco Secure Email are advised to manually update their default configuration.
- The vulnerability impacts multiple email providers globally, and the researchers have created an analysis tool to check for vulnerability.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38727987)

- SMTP smuggling is a method used by attackers to manipulate SMTP servers and spoof emails.
- The article criticizes the emphasis on successful attacks instead of securing open-source software, highlighting the risks to email system security.
- Concerns are raised about default settings in Cisco, and the article suggests using a restrictive DMARC policy and SPF to mitigate risks.
- The vulnerabilities in the Postfix email server and the controversy surrounding the disclosure of an email spoofing attack are discussed.
- CERT/CC has allowed the public release of information on SMTP smuggling, considering it a feature rather than a bug.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="ArXiv improves accessibility with HTML versions for research papers" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=ArXiv%20improves%20accessibility%20with%20HTML%20versions%20for%20research%20papers&subheading=Friday%2C%20December%2022%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
