---
slug: '/2023/12/24'
---

# 2023-12-24

## [Ferret: A Multimodal Model for Precise Object Referring and Grounding](https://github.com/apple/ml-ferret)

- The paper presents the Ferret model, an end-to-end MLLM that can refer and ground objects in images with high precision.
- It introduces the hybrid region representation and spatial-aware visual sampler as key contributions.
- The paper also introduces the GRIT dataset for instruction tuning and the Ferret-Bench, a multimodal evaluation benchmark.
- The code and checkpoints for the Ferret model and Ferret-Bench have been released, but with usage restrictions for research purposes only.
- The paper provides comprehensive instructions for installing, training, evaluating, and using the Ferret model in a demo.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38745348)

- Apple has introduced Ferret, a multimodal large language model (LLM) to enhance accessibility for visually impaired individuals.
- The unveiling highlights Apple's advancements in AI technology and their ongoing development of AI capabilities in both hardware and software.
- Discussions revolve around Apple's potential to surpass competitors in the AI field, concerns regarding the limitations of Siri and autocomplete features, and debates on Apple's approach to new technologies.
- Users also explore Apple's marketing strategies, possible business opportunities, research papers, and the performance of virtual assistants.
- Some express discontent with Apple's existing products and skepticism towards their future releases.

## [Meta accused of global pro-Palestinian censorship, report finds](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2023/dec/21/meta-facebook-instagram-pro-palestine-censorship-human-rights-watch-report)

- A report from Human Rights Watch alleges that Meta (formerly Facebook) has engaged in "systemic and global" censorship of pro-Palestinian content during the Israel-Gaza war.
- The report identifies six patterns of censorship, including content removal and account suspensions.
- Meta denies the allegations, claiming that it makes mistakes but does not purposely suppress specific voices.
- This is the second time this month that Meta has been accused of silencing pro-Palestinian content.
- Meta's oversight board recently ruled that the removal of two videos related to the conflict was wrong.
- Users have reported technological bias favoring pro-Israel content and disadvantaging pro-Palestinian posts on Meta's platforms.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38745673)

- Meta (formerly Facebook) is accused of censoring pro-Palestinian content, raising concerns about bias in content moderation.
- The discussion includes topics like the reach and visibility of content, algorithmic influence, and debates about the phrase "from the river to the sea."
- There are diverse opinions on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, content censorship, and the role of social media platforms. The conversation also delves into historical context, the treatment of Jews in Arab countries, and the importance of coexistence and acknowledging historical facts.

## [Decoding the Ingenious Xmas.c (1988) - A Substitution Cipher Compresses Text in Obfuscated C Code](https://udel.edu/~mm/xmas/)

- The summary discusses xmas.c, a C code that won the International Obfuscated C Code Contest.
- The code was analyzed in November 2008, and its functionality was decoded.
- xmas.c uses text compression, a substitution cipher, and recursion.
- The author appreciates the creativity of the code and wishes the readers a Merry Christmas.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38745668)

- The article explores a Christmas-themed hacker code called "Xmas.c" from 1988 and its similarities to "xii.tex" code.
- Users share their experiences running the code on modern systems but encounter errors due to changes in the C programming language.
- Moving the main function resolves the code's error, highlighting the importance of understanding C language changes.

## [The Art of Electronics (2015): A Comprehensive Guide by Horowitz and Hill for Circuit Enthusiasts and Professionals](https://artofelectronics.net/)

- "The Art of Electronics" by Horowitz and Hill is a highly respected and comprehensive book covering circuit artifacts.
- It has received positive reviews from industry professionals and is available for purchase online.
- Buyers should be wary of counterfeit copies and should only purchase the authorized e-book version on Kindle.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38748370)

- "The Art of Electronics" is a highly regarded book on circuit design that has had a significant impact on many readers, praised for its chapters on minicomputers and construction techniques.
- The author, Horowitz, is known for giving talks and efficiently solving electronics problems.
- The discussion around the book includes opinions on the best edition, counterfeit versions, and alternative books, as well as the necessity of buying the latest edition.
- The author recommends newer materials for analog and digital design, but older resources are still sufficient for learning about circuit design and discrete electronics projects.
- The book is considered a great reference with some errata and the opportunity to take a course associated with it at Harvard Extension.
- There is discussion about a website called "Bad Circuits" and a desire for more detail on why certain circuits are considered bad.
- The book is valued for personal development by some commenters, who also share their personal experiences with electronics and recommendations for finding cheap components and equipment.

## [Suno AI: Breaking Barriers in Music Creation](https://www.suno.ai/)

- Sound About Suno is a team of musicians and AI experts in Cambridge, MA, that aims to bridge the gap between people and music.
- They strive for a future where anyone can create exceptional music using only their imagination, eliminating the need for musical instruments.
- The company fosters a culture of music and sound experimentation and encourages individuals from diverse backgrounds to join them.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38743719)

- Users are divided in their opinions about the Suno AI platform's ability to generate music, with some praising its capabilities and others highlighting its limitations.
- The discussion also focuses on the emotional connection and control in AI-generated music, debating whether it can match the human element.
- The benefits and limitations of AI in creative fields, comparisons to AI girlfriends and therapists, and the need for a human element in music are all discussed. Users share their experiences, suggestions, and concerns about copyright and the impact on the music industry.

## [NY Governor Signs LLC Transparency Bill, Allows Limited Access to Database, Vetoes Noncompete Ban & Recycling Bin Requirement](https://gothamist.com/news/ny-gov-hochul-vetoes-ban-on-noncompete-clauses-waters-down-llc-transparency-bill)

- New York Governor Kathy Hochul has signed a bill requiring limited liability companies (LLCs) to disclose their "beneficial owners."
- However, she has prevented public access to the database containing this information, raising concerns about transparency.
- Hochul also vetoed a bill that aimed to ban noncompete agreements and another that would have required New York City to install recycling bins in certain areas.
- On the positive side, she approved a bill that will move many county- and town-level elections to even-numbered years.
- Critics argue that these changes could potentially benefit Democrats and have a negative impact on local communities.
- Five pieces of legislation are still pending approval or rejection by the end of the year, adding to the ongoing changes in New York's legal landscape.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38749155)

- The comments cover a variety of topics including noncompete agreements, transparency in business entities, the political landscape of New York, voting systems, and political stances in government.
- There are debates on the effectiveness of noncompete agreements and concerns about the influence of big businesses on politics.
- Discussions also focus on electoral reform, challenges faced by third parties in the US, historical context, constitutional rights, and flaws of the two-party system.

## [StreamDiffusion: Real-time Image Generation with Enhanced Performance](https://github.com/cumulo-autumn/StreamDiffusion)

- StreamDiffusion is a diffusion pipeline that enables real-time interactive image generation.
- It enhances performance through optimized caching, advanced filtering techniques, efficient batch operations, and a classifier-free guidance mechanism.
- The pipeline can be integrated with PyTorch and supports both text-to-image and image-to-image generation, with optional features like stochastic similarity filtering and computational complexity approximation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38749434)

- The summary covers a wide range of topics in the AI and machine learning community, including advancements, job replacement potential, model optimization, GPU utilization, model comparisons, ecosystem requirements, Apple's future plans for NPU and unified memory GPU, and challenges in the field.
- It also discusses the role of conferences in research dissemination and the misalignment of incentives for researchers.
- The mention of MidJourney as a local runtime stable diffusion streaming library is included.

## [Can Microsoft Flight Simulator enhance flying skills and knowledge?](https://aviation.stackexchange.com/questions/738/can-microsoft-flight-simulator-help-me-learn-to-fly-or-make-me-a-better-pilot)

- Flight simulators like Microsoft Flight Simulator and Xplane 10 are useful for practicing procedures and operations in a controlled environment.
- However, they cannot fully replicate the real flying experience or teach certain skills required for piloting.
- It is important to seek guidance from a flight instructor to supplement simulator training and gain a complete understanding of flying.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38750411)

- Flight simulators are a topic of debate when it comes to pilot training, with some arguing for their benefits in learning and practicing specific aspects of flying, particularly for instrument flight rules (IFR).
- However, simulators may not be as effective for visual flight rules (VFR) training and can potentially lead to the development of bad habits.
- The limitations and costs of simulators are also discussed, highlighting the importance of real-world experience and practical flight hours in developing piloting skills. Simulators can be a helpful supplement to training, but should not be the sole focus.

## [In 2023, Organic Maps Surges to One Million Users, Championing Privacy and Open Source](https://organicmaps.app/news/2023-12-23/in-2023-organic-maps-got-its-first-million-users/)

- Organic Maps, an alternative to Google and Apple Maps, has reached one million users in 2023.
- New features have been added, including GPX import, Ruler tool, Outdoors map style, Background voice directions, and Android Auto.
- The app has received positive ratings and has had significant contributions from the open-source community. The company plans to continue improving map quality, increase user engagement with OpenStreetMap, and provide a privacy-focused alternative.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38746187)

- Organic Maps, a navigation app, has reached one million users but lacks bookmark synchronization, which is a critical feature for many users.
- The developers are considering user demands, code quality, project focus, and cost when deciding whether to implement bookmark synchronization.
- Suggestions have been made to use third-party platforms or manual exporting and syncing for bookmarks.
- The discussion also covers topics like data backup, privacy, and open platforms.
- OpenStreetMap (OSM) is mentioned with its limitations, and the user-friendly app StreetComplete is praised for adding details.
- Users emphasize the need for more contributors and a global OpenPOI database.
- Organic Maps receives praise for hiking, but some users mention limitations and inaccuracies in the Points of Interest (POI) data.
- The thread discusses different navigation apps, features, and usability.
- Users recommend Organic Maps, OSM, and Apple Maps for navigation.
- Organic Maps downloads maps directly from OSM, but potential format changes raise concerns.
- Organic Maps is praised for being open source.

## [Crown shyness: Exploring the causes, implications, and importance of this intriguing phenomenon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crown_shyness)

- Crown shyness is a phenomenon where tree canopies do not touch each other, and this is explored in the article.
- The causes and implications of crown shyness are discussed, including mechanical abrasion and the influence of neighboring trees.
- The role of photoreceptors in detecting neighboring plants, as well as the ecological implications and the importance of studying canopy ecology and conservation, are also mentioned.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38749170)

- Crown shyness is a phenomenon where the crowns of neighboring trees do not touch each other.
- Recent developments suggest a positive correlation between crown shyness and tree slenderness and leaf shape.
- Crown shyness may be a strategy for resource management and an adaptation to environmental stresses, but its prevalence and universality among tree species are difficult to determine.

## [Bayesian methods advocated for statistical analysis in clinical trials](https://statmodeling.stat.columbia.edu/2023/12/23/bayesians-moving-from-defense-to-offense-i-really-think-its-kind-of-irresponsible-now-not-to-use-the-information-from-all-those-thousands-of-medical-trials-that-came-before-is-that-very/)

- A recent study suggests that many clinical trials have lower statistical power than reported, leading to overestimated treatment effects and potential replication failures.
- The authors propose reinterpreting the P value using a reference population of studies to provide more insight and prevent naive interpretations.
- They also compare the performance of a shrinkage estimator to the unbiased estimator, finding that the shrinkage estimator performs better.
- The authors advocate for the use of Bayesian methods and the incorporation of prior information in statistical analysis to improve the accuracy of results.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38744588)

- The discussion explores various aspects of Bayesian and frequentist statistics, including point estimates, Bayesian priors, random effect confidence intervals, machine learning, p-values, terminology, and comparison between the two approaches.
- It also delves into the impact of biases, controversy, brain complexity, replication crisis, and the role of Bayesian methods in A/B testing.
- The debate emphasizes the importance of informed decision-making in statistical analysis and highlights the strengths and limitations of both Bayesian and frequentist approaches.

## [Understanding the Structure and Contents of a WASM Module](https://danielmangum.com/posts/every-byte-wasm-module/)

- The article provides a comprehensive overview of the structure and contents of a WebAssembly (WASM) module.
- It discusses the process of understanding and decoding different sections within the module, such as the type section, function section, memory section, global section, exports section, code section, and custom sections.
- The article emphasizes the use of tools like Clang, Zig, xxd, and wasm2wat for compilation, verification, and viewing the contents of a WASM module.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38744168)

- The article explores the byte structure of WebAssembly modules and recommends a book for learning about bytecodes and programming language compilers.
- Users discuss their experiences with building parsers for WebAssembly and debate design choices.
- The discussion encompasses encoding schemes, their suitability for specific purposes, and their impact on performance and efficiency.

## [How B-tree Optimizes Database Queries](https://blog.allegro.tech/2023/11/how-does-btree-make-your-queries-fast.html)

- The B-tree is a data structure commonly used in databases for efficient searching of large amounts of data.
- Despite being invented over 40 years ago, the B-tree is still widely employed today in modern databases.
- The structure optimizes for sequential access and is self-balancing, making it durable and efficient for handling most database queries.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38748433)

- B-trees are commonly used as indexes in databases to improve query performance.
- The efficiency of B-trees depends on data access patterns and specific queries executed.
- Other data structures like BRIN and sorted databases in memory can also improve access patterns.
- Performance issues related to B-trees and the preference for sequential access on SSDs are discussed.
- LSM trees, arrays, and hardware optimization are considered for improving performance.
- Query planners and specialized representations of indexes are used in top commercial databases.
- Temporary indexes, hash tables, and bitmaps are used for in-memory processing.
- The impact of indexing UUID columns on efficiency and performance is discussed.
- Suggestions for efficient UUID indexing include using sequential UUIDs or sorting schemes.
- Choosing keys well is important for good performance and scalability.

## [Otter: a Fast and Efficient Go In-Memory Cache with S3-FIFO Algorithm](https://github.com/maypok86/otter)

- Otter is a high-performance in-memory cache library for Golang that aims to provide a contention-free and fast cache with a high hit ratio.
- It employs various algorithms and features, including autoconfiguration, TTL expiration, cost-based eviction, and the S3-FIFO algorithm.
- Otter offers a simple API, supports generics, and provides installation and usage examples. It has been benchmarked against other cache libraries, demonstrating good performance and hit ratios. Contributions are encouraged, and the project is licensed under Apache 2.0.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38745070)

- The discussion explores caching in the Go programming language, focusing on performance, benchmark results, and hit ratios of caching libraries.
- The S3-FIFO algorithm, impact of garbage collection, and usage of the "unsafe" package are also discussed in relation to caching systems in Go.
- Users share their opinions on the efficiency and reliability of various caching approaches, providing links to relevant resources.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Ferret: A Multimodal Model for Precise Object Referring and Grounding" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Ferret%3A%20A%20Multimodal%20Model%20for%20Precise%20Object%20Referring%20and%20Grounding&subheading=Sunday%2C%20December%2024%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
