---
slug: '/2023/12/26'
---

# 2023-12-26

## [Stirling-PDF: A Feature-Packed PDF Manipulation Tool for Local Use](https://github.com/Frooodle/Stirling-PDF)

- Stirling-PDF is a locally hosted web-based tool for manipulating PDF files, offering features like splitting, merging, converting, and more.
- The tool ensures the security and privacy of files, without making outbound calls for tracking or record keeping.
- It utilizes technologies like Spring Boot, Thymeleaf, PDFBox, LibreOffice, and more, and can be accessed through a hosted instance or run locally using Docker or Podman.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38765627)

- Users are discussing various PDF editing tools, including their compatibility, limitations, and alternative options.
- The conversation encompasses automation processes like converting emails to PDFs and organizing PDF columns.
- Users mention specific software, features, pricing concerns, the use of AI technology, bugs encountered, and suggestions for alternative PDF tools.

## [Challenging Projects for Programmers: Text Editor, Game, Compiler, OS, Spreadsheet, Emulator](https://austinhenley.com/blog/challengingprojects.html)

- Austin Z. Henley suggests a variety of challenging software projects for programmers to try, such as building a text editor, a 2D game like Space Invaders, a Tiny BASIC compiler, a mini operating system, a spreadsheet, and a video game console emulator.
- Through these projects, programmers can gain valuable knowledge and skills in key concepts.
- Henley provides further reading recommendations for each project and includes a list of additional project ideas from readers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38768678)

- The article and comment threads cover a range of challenging programming projects and the importance of different skills in software engineering.
- The limitations of AI in certain coding tasks and the value of low-level programming knowledge are discussed.
- There are debates on software engineering vs programming and suggestions for learning projects in various fields, such as game development, machine learning, and fluid dynamics. Additionally, the discussion touches on finding a balance between a career in tech and pursuing other non-computer-related interests.

## [Top Software Blog Posts of 2023: Scaling systems, optimizing architectures, programming languages, and more!](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38765176)

- The person is seeking software engineering blog posts covering topics like system scaling, architectures, optimization, programming languages, and cool features.
- They are open to recommendations from open-source projects, companies, or individuals.
- They also extend holiday greetings.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38765176)

- The forum post discusses users' favorite software engineering blog posts from 2023, covering topics such as system scaling, architectures, optimization, programming languages, and cool features.
- The discussion includes debates on programming and software development methodologies, specifically integration tests versus unit tests.
- Users recommend their preferred blog posts and resources, providing valuable insights for software engineers seeking relevant and up-to-date information.

## [Retired engineer wins First Amendment case against state board](https://www.wect.com/2023/12/20/federal-court-decides-favor-retired-engineer-told-by-state-not-talk-about-math-public/)

- A retired engineer in North Carolina, Wayne Nutt, has won a First Amendment case against the state's Board of Examiners and Surveyors.
- Nutt was told by the board to stop sharing his engineering opinions online without a state license.
- The court ruled in Nutt's favor, stating that the state violated his First Amendment rights, setting an important precedent for others in similar situations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38767936)

- The discussion revolves around the court ruling on the eligibility of retired engineers to provide expert testimony without a professional engineering license.
- Debates arise regarding the qualifications and credibility of expert witnesses, as well as rivalries in the blockchain and cryptocurrency industry.
- Licensing requirements, the role of expert witnesses in court cases, the value of certifications in professions like engineering, and the significance of math in engineering are also discussed.

## [Improving SSH Password Authentication with a Password Manager and Zsh Wrapper](https://vincent.bernat.ch/en/blog/2023-sshpass-without-sshpass)

- The article explores non-interactive SSH password authentication and offers a Zsh wrapper for retrieving passwords from a password manager.
- It presents a method to make scp utilize the custom ssh function.
- The post highlights the benefits of using public keys instead of passwords and discusses the challenges associated with certificate-based authentication and more granular authorization methods.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38762214)

- The discussion explores different aspects of SSH password authentication, privileged access management systems, and authentication methods, such as Kerberos and its limitations.
- It also covers the implementation of FreeIPA for simplified setup, challenges with SSH key authentication and their solutions, and the use of SFTP, rsync, and sshpass for file transfer.
- Other topics include issues with shell scripts and APIs, decrypting SSH keys, concerns about storing passwords permanently, and managing passwords in large-scale environments.

## [Software update renders vehicle undrivable, owner advised to contact support](https://twitter.com/danluu/status/1739387245034139692)

- A vehicle's software update has failed, causing the vehicle to be unusable.
- The owner is urged to reach out to customer support for assistance.
- The post does not provide any further details regarding the specific issue or how it can be resolved.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38766178)

- The discussion highlighted the importance of software updates and integration in vehicles, particularly for enhancing smart car functionalities.
- Challenges in updating multiple components and the need for failsafe mechanisms were identified as key concerns.
- Tesla's software engineering, the need for stricter regulations, concerns about software reliability, and the demand for internet connectivity in vehicles were also discussed.

## [Inflight WiFi glitch caused by crowded network with 55 connected devices](https://twitter.com/erratarob/status/1739132876732674539?s=46&t=FFxXRm_qmWG4nJwsccRUbA)

- The individual encountered problems with the inflight wifi, which were attributed to a lack of DHCP lease.
- At the time of the issue, there were 55 devices connected to the wifi network.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38762065)

- The discussion encompasses a range of networking topics, such as WiFi connectivity issues, book suggestions, home network setup, and bypassing captive portals.
- Specific networking technologies and methods like VLAN segregation and access point management are also discussed.
- Other topics include frustrations with captive portals, travel router usage, security concerns, the concept of "internet reset," IT certifications, and the legal implications of using hacking tools on airplanes.

## [Contest Factory Uses Broad Software Patents to Sue Online Contest Organizers, Challenged by EFF](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2023/12/stupid-patent-month-selfie-contests)

- Contest Factory has filed multiple lawsuits against companies organizing online contests, asserting that their patents cover a broad range of online contests.
- The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) argues that these software patents harm people's right to express themselves and participate in online culture.
- The EFF believes that such patents should not have been granted and advocates for a more accessible process to challenge these patents.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38763566)

- The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) has raised concerns about a patent called "Selfie Contests" and argues that simply adding the words "on a computer" to an everyday activity should not be patentable.
- The discussion focuses on issues such as prior art, obviousness, patent trolling, and the process of invalidating patents.
- Various suggestions are made, including the use of lawyers or a formal process for requesting invalidation, but the complexity and cost involved are acknowledged. Examples of prior art and questionable patent approvals are also mentioned.

## [TKey: The USB Stick Computer for Secure Applications](https://dev.tillitis.se/intro/)

- The Tillitis TKey is a USB stick computer specifically made for running secure applications that offer various security features like encryption and token generation.
- It comes with a 32-bit RISC-V CPU, hardware-assisted address randomization and RAM scrambling, and no persistent storage.
- The device ensures the integrity of the loaded application by measuring it using a Unique Device Secret (UDS) and a Compound Device Identifier (CDI), and all of its software and hardware designs are open source.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38764353)

- The discussion centers around the TKey, a RISC-V computer in a USB-C case that can run security applications.
- The TKey is stateless and uses a key derivation function to generate unique key material for each device+application combination.
- It supports loading other applications, verified boot policies, and addresses key compromise through transparency logs.
- Note: The discussion also includes:
- Mention of authentication methods like FIDO2, TOTP, and GPG.
- Challenges of compatibility and hardware security.
- The project Sigsum for distributing trust assumptions.
- The use of FPGA technology to mitigate supply chain attacks.
- Comparison of TKey to other devices like YubiKey and Precursor.
- Importance of tamper evidence and tamper response in hardware security.
- Challenges of FIPS certification.
- Risks and practicality of using security devices without screens.
- Desire for lightweight app-specific HSMs.
- Cost of certification for niche electronics.
- Additional markup involved in commercialization.

## [Achieving Reproducibility in Git Backups by Forcing Single-Threaded Execution](https://baecher.dev/stdout/reproducible-git-bundles/)

- The author encountered issues with non-deterministic behavior when backing up git repositories.
- They identified the bundling process as the cause and resolved it by enforcing single-threaded operation in git.
- The trade-off in performance resulted in deterministic output, enabling reproducibility in the backups.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38764452)

- The popular website Hacker News is currently encountering problems and is unable to handle requests in a timely manner.
- Users may experience delays or difficulties in accessing content on Hacker News.
- The technical issues impacting the website's performance are currently being addressed.

## [German Courts Affirm User Freedom: Ad-blockers and Copyright Laws](https://fsfe.org/news/2023/news-20231220-01.en.html)

- Recent court cases in Germany have upheld the right of internet users to use ad-blockers as a means of avoiding intrusive advertising.
- The court rulings state that using ad-blockers does not violate copyright laws, giving users legal protection.
- However, the court also ruled that companies can choose to exclude users with ad-blockers from accessing their content or implement a paid access model.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38763165)

- The article discusses various topics related to user freedom and adblockers, including the impact of advertising on free speech and the legality and ethics of ad-blocking.
- It explores issues of malware, unauthorized computer use, and alternative monetization methods for content creators.
- Different viewpoints and suggestions are presented, such as paying for ad-free versions or exploring alternative revenue models for websites.

## [Build Your Own Night Clock Projector: Easy DIY Guide (2018)](https://microengineer.eu/2018/05/01/diy-night-clock-projector/)

- The DIY Night Clock Projector is a project that involves building a clock projector that can project the time onto a ceiling at night.
- The project utilizes a small negative LCD screen and calculates the image size based on the focal length.
- It includes two PCBs designed for the electronics construction and offers various case options. Additionally, downloadable files for schematics, layout, bill of materials, and 3D STL files are provided.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38765196)

- The article explores a DIY night clock projector project using a MicroVision Laser Projector.
- The author shares their personal experience with the projector and addresses the availability of VGA cables for it.
- Comments from users touch upon the discontinuation of small laser MEMS projectors, concerns regarding image quality, and suggestions for alternative options to address potential sleep quality issues.

## [The Rise of Affordable Computing: From Mainframes to Microcomputers](https://www.theregister.com/2023/12/25/the_war_of_the_workstations/)

- This article challenges the idea of progress in computing and highlights the development of simpler and cheaper models of computers throughout history.
- It explores the evolution of computers from mainframes to microcomputers in the 1980s and the trade-offs made for simplicity and affordability.
- It discusses the development, capabilities, and decline of the Newton, Lisp, and Smalltalk machines, as well as various operating systems. It also raises questions about the use of multiple programming languages and the advantages of dedicated hardware.
- The article mentions different design approaches in software development and the decline of Lisp in favor of inexpensive and interchangeable software.
- It concludes by listing various software, technologies, and topics mentioned, such as Microsoft Office, Visual Studio, open source software, programming languages, and education.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38763933)

- The text is a compilation of comments, discussions, and opinions on a range of computing technology and programming language topics.
- It covers the use of low-cost technology, open-source software, code sharing challenges, PC dominance, programming language history, and computing paradigms.
- Specific technologies and projects mentioned include Lisp Machines, Sk8, Dylan, and the GNU project.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Stirling-PDF: A Feature-Packed PDF Manipulation Tool for Local Use" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Stirling-PDF%3A%20A%20Feature-Packed%20PDF%20Manipulation%20Tool%20for%20Local%20Use&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20December%2026%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
