---
slug: '/2023/12/29'
---

# 2023-12-29

## [The Evolution of Text-based IDEs: A Comparison to Modern IDEs](https://blogsystem5.substack.com/p/the-ides-we-had-30-years-ago-and)

- This article examines the transformation of text-based IDEs throughout three decades and compares them to contemporary IDEs.
- The author shares their firsthand encounters with older IDEs such as SideKick Plus and Turbo Pascal, emphasizing their characteristics and user-friendliness.
- Despite the decline in popularity of text-based user interfaces (TUIs) in software development due to graphical operating systems, TUI IDEs are making a resurgence with the introduction of the Language Server Protocol (LSP).
- While some enhancements have been implemented in modern IDEs, the fundamental functionality has largely stayed the same.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38792446)

- Participants in the discussion express frustration with modern IDEs and praise the simplicity and efficiency of older tools like Visual Basic 6 and Delphi.
- The challenges of web and mobile development are discussed, including the fragmentation of UI libraries and the difficulties faced by OS vendors in creating integrated IDEs.
- Low-code tools like Excel are mentioned as advantageous, while the limitations of Python and JavaScript for app creation are also debated. Other topics include documentation, remote development, code editing, and IDE performance.

## [Amazon Warned by FDA for Undeclared Ingredients in Supplements](https://www.fda.gov/inspections-compliance-enforcement-and-criminal-investigations/warning-letters/amazoncom-inc-662503-12202023)

- The FDA has issued a warning letter to Amazon for distributing products that violate federal regulations.
- The products contain undisclosed pharmaceutical ingredients, including sildenafil and tadalafil, which can have dangerous side effects.
- The FDA considers these products to be unapproved drugs, as they do not meet the definition of dietary supplements, and has requested a written response from Amazon addressing the violations. Additionally, specific products stored in Amazon's fulfillment centers, such as WeFun Capsules, have been recalled due to the presence of undisclosed drug ingredients.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38794068)

- The need for improved regulation and oversight of product safety, particularly in the supplement industry, is being discussed.
- Amazon is specifically mentioned as a platform where supplements with undisclosed ingredients are sold.
- Concerns are raised about the lack of regulation in the industry and the responsibility of platforms like Amazon to ensure the safety and legality of the products they sell.

## [Finding Stability: How Cold-Blooded Software Projects Adapt and Thrive](https://dubroy.com/blog/cold-blooded-software/)

- The author compares cold-blooded animals' ability to adapt to their environment to software projects that use stable and reliable technology.
- The author shares a personal experience with a successful software project that has remained functional for a long time and is expected to continue working in the future.
- The parallel drawn highlights the importance of using stable technology in software development for long-term success.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38793206)

- Discussions cover a range of programming language and software-related topics such as language popularity, stability, and challenges in code maintenance.
- The importance of regular updates for security and functionality is emphasized, along with the preference for stable and reliable technologies.
- There are also debates on the risks of using outdated software and conversations about specific tools, libraries, languages, and the balance between maintaining code and rewriting it in the future.

## [Mozilla CEO compensation rises, Firefox market share falls, as company shifts focus to AI services](https://lunduke.locals.com/post/5053290/mozilla-2023-annual-report-ceo-pay-skyrockets-while-firefox-marketshare-nosedives)

- The Mozilla Foundation's 2023 annual report reveals that CEO compensation increased while revenue and Firefox market share decreased, potentially indicating a shift in focus towards artificial intelligence services.
- The article discusses various topics including joining Lunduke.Locals.com for independent tech journalism, the Linux Foundation's reduced spending on Linux, the future of The Internet Archive, and openSUSE's refusal to allow the author to contribute.
- The Linux Foundation has been allocating more funding to blockchain and AI projects, raising concerns about their priorities, while The Lunduke Journal offers gift subscriptions and a guide on anonymous information leaking. Additionally, the summary mentions options for sending files and recommends an anonymous file sharing tool.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38795308)

- Mozilla's 2023 annual report reveals an increase in CEO pay, coinciding with a decline in Firefox's market share.
- Users attribute the decrease in market share to privacy features, mobile usage, and the dominance of Google and Apple.
- Discussions revolve around improving the browsing experience with plugins and extensions, addressing revenue decline, funding sustainability, and the potential for a privacy-focused alternative to Firefox.

## [Configuring Lode Runner Web Game Canvas Position and Google Analytics Tracking](https://loderunnerwebgame.com/game/)

- The code snippet sets the position of the Lode Runner web game canvas to "absolute", meaning it will be positioned relative to its closest positioned ancestor.
- The canvas is positioned at the top left corner of the web page, ensuring it is displayed in the desired location.
- In addition to positioning the canvas, the code also includes the initialization and configuration of Google Analytics tracking for the web page, allowing for analysis of user interactions and website performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38792753)

- Users engage in a discussion reminiscing about their experiences playing computer games, particularly Lode Runner, and discuss gameplay mechanics, level design, and loading times.
- Some users share their experiences with other classic games from the Windows 95 era and express concerns about technical issues on websites hosting these games.
- Discussions include debates on the loading time of the game being impacted by round-trip latency and differing opinions on what is considered acceptable for loading times on modern machines.

## [Simulating Artificial Life: Complexity Arises from Simplicity](https://github.com/hunar4321/particle-life)

- The summary discusses a program that simulates artificial life by using rules of attraction and repulsion among particles.
- The program generates self-organizing life-like patterns and is available in C++, JavaScript, and Python.
- It lacks collision detection, enabling real-time simulation of numerous particles, and allows for parameter exploration and fine-tuning.
- Planned updates include adding features like saving and loading parameters, additional particle types, and improved computational efficiency.
- The program aims to showcase how complexity can emerge from simplicity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38794625)

- The article explores a coding project called "Particle Life" that builds upon Conway's game of life, introducing RGB "genes" for color combinations.
- The discussion focuses on optimizations and updates to the particle life simulation, as well as concepts like the scarcity of intelligent life in the universe, the possibility of space travel, and the potential ecological risks associated with contamination.
- The article also examines the philosophical implications of life emerging from simple rules, and concludes with appreciation for the demonstration of the simulation.

## [Liero: The Ultimate Duel Game with Mods, Maps, and Online Multiplayer](http://www.liero.be/)

- Liero is a popular duel game that was originally released in 1998 and now has four versions available with different features.
- Liero 1.33 is the original version from 2000, while Liero 1.36 is a high-fidelity clone that addresses bugs and introduces new features.
- WebLiero offers an online multiplayer experience, and lierolibre is a project dedicated to distributing Liero freely. The game involves selecting weapons and engaging in combat on various maps. It has a vibrant modding community, and it can be played on modern computers and popular web browsers. Contact details are provided for additional inquiries.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38796870)

- The discussion centers around the popularity and nostalgic appeal of Liero and other games from the Finnish shareware scene.
- Participants share their experiences and memories of playing these games and discuss their unique features and gameplay mechanics.
- Other games like Scorched Earth, Worms, and their successors and clones are also mentioned, along with discussions on open source alternatives and the evolution of games in this genre.

## [Ideal Screen Rotation for Programmers: Exploring the Benefits of a 22° Angle in Coding](https://sprocketfox.io/xssfox/2021/12/02/xrandr/)

- The author experiments with various screen orientations for software development, such as portrait mode and different angles of rotation.
- After exploring the advantages and disadvantages, they determine that a 22° rotation offers the most optimal line lengths for coding.
- The author introduces a tool called xrandr to rotate the screen and provides transformation matrix examples for different angles. They also offer a calculator to generate the xrandr command for specific inputs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38802086)

- Optimal monitor setup for programmers in 2021 is discussed, with recommendations for large 4K monitors and considering pixels per inch.
- Suggestions vary on size, aspect ratio, and orientation, with some users advocating for square or 3:2 aspect ratios and specific monitor models.
- Other suggestions include using ultrawide screens, unique layouts, and utilizing tools for customizing screen setups, as well as inventions like auto-rotating mounts and rotation-resistant cables. The discussion also covers line length in coding and web development setups.

## [Investigating the Randomness of xkcd: Unbiasedness and Pattern Perception](https://hardmath123.github.io/xkcd-random.html)

- The author of this blog post investigates the randomness of the "random" button on the xkcd website using statistical tests.
- The random number generator used by xkcd is confirmed to be unbiased and unpredictable.
- The perception of bias may be due to human tendency to see patterns, despite the randomness of the generator.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38792631)

- Discussions revolve around randomness in various contexts like xkcd webcomic, Spotify, and video games like Civilization, questioning biased shuffle algorithms and repetitive songs in music streaming platforms.
- Users express the need for a more diverse listening experience and offer suggestions to improve shuffle algorithms.
- The concept of randomness is explored, with users questioning the assumption of true randomness and highlighting the complexity and challenges in implementing it effectively in different systems.

## [Developers' refusal to support user requests causes frustration and highlights need for better guidance](https://bvisness.me/you-cant/)

- The author expresses frustration with programming experiences they find insulting and condescending.
- Examples like Python's exit command, formatting Rust files, and conflicts when vendoring Rust dependencies are given as instances where developers refused to allow users to do what they wanted, leaving them feeling unsupported and frustrated.
- The author calls on developers to either fully support features or provide guidance for alternative solutions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38797908)

- The discussion revolves around the frustrations and challenges faced by software developers in dealing with programming languages and tools like Rust, Python, and JavaScript.
- Issues such as default settings, customization, stability of features, user-friendly interfaces, and development prioritization are brought up.
- Some participants express frustration with the lack of empathy among developers and the challenges of understanding complex systems. The conversation highlights the common problems and complexities associated with software development.

## [Foundations: Exploring Physics and Science Fiction in Greg Egan's Collection](https://www.gregegan.net/FOUNDATIONS/)

- "Foundations" is a collection of articles by Greg Egan discussing the influence of twentieth-century physics theories on science fiction.
- The articles explain the main concepts of each theory and their real-world predictions, aimed at lay readers with no advanced math background.
- Topics covered include special relativity, general relativity, black holes, and quantum mechanics. The collection also includes Egan's fictional works.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38793249)

- Greg Egan is a science fiction writer known for his concept-focused storytelling, which receives both praise and criticism.
- Some readers appreciate his thought-provoking ideas, while others find his writing lacking in compelling storytelling.
- The discussion explores the challenges faced by science fiction writers in creating unique settings and compares science fiction to traditional literature.
- Egan's short stories are preferred by some readers over his novels.
- Recommendations for reading Egan's work are mentioned.
- Egan's decision to remain anonymous raises concerns about privacy and online harassment.
- Themes of time travel and climate change are discussed in relation to various authors' works.
- A comparison is made between the books "Red Mars" and "Timescape."
- The possibility of adapting "Red Mars" into a film is mentioned.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="The Evolution of Text-based IDEs: A Comparison to Modern IDEs" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=The%20Evolution%20of%20Text-based%20IDEs%3A%20A%20Comparison%20to%20Modern%20IDEs&subheading=Friday%2C%20December%2029%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
