---
slug: '/2023/12/30'
---

# 2023-12-30

## [Switch to Firefox in 2024 for Privacy & Web Development](https://roytanck.com/2023/12/23/in-2024-please-switch-to-firefox/)

- The author suggests switching to Firefox as a web browser for two main reasons in 2024: privacy and preventing a browser engine monopoly.
- Firefox is the only major browser not associated with a company that profits from advertising and selling personal data.
- The author warns against a single browser engine dominating the market, as it may hinder web development. They highlight Firefox's speed, user interface, and effectiveness, making it a valuable option for users, and encourage supporting Firefox to preserve the web.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38806270)

- The discussion revolves around various topics regarding web browsers, with a primary focus on Firefox and Chrome.
- Users explore topics such as compatibility of websites with Firefox, pros and cons of different browsers, privacy concerns, plugin issues, and the dominance of Chrome.
- The conversation underscores users' frustrations, preferences, and concerns regarding different web browsers and their features.

## [Turn your folder into a website with Blot](https://blot.im/how)

- Blot is a platform that transforms a folder into a website, turning the files within the folder into individual posts on the site.
- Users can sync their folders with popular cloud storage services like Dropbox, Git, and Google Drive.
- Users have control over which files become posts and can also restrict certain files from being published.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38809145)

- The discussion centers around Blot, a website-making tool that enables users to transform folders into websites.
- Users on Hacker News appreciate Blot but criticize its lack of pricing transparency.
- The conversation covers topics such as using file extensions as "flavors" for different website versions, comparisons with other blogging platforms, and the ease of use of Blot.

## [Gentoo Linux now offers binary packages for easier installation and wider software availability](https://www.gentoo.org/news/2023/12/29/Gentoo-binary.html)

- Gentoo Linux, a source-based distribution, now provides binary packages for download and installation alongside source-based packages.
- The binary packages are available for amd64 and arm64 architectures and offer a wide range of software.
- Users can configure their existing Gentoo installation to use the binary packages by creating a configuration file.
- Binary packages are compiled with specific settings for different architectures and profiles.
- The packages are cryptographically signed, and users can verify the signatures before installation.
- Binary packages can be used with a merged-usr system but not with other profile versions.
- Currently, Gentoo does not have plans to offer binary packages for ~amd64.
- Users are encouraged to report any issues or bugs related to the binary package support.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38804135)

- Gentoo Linux is a distribution known for its flexibility and customization options, with strong community support.
- The article compares Gentoo to other popular distributions like Debian, Arch, and Ubuntu, discussing factors such as hardware support and ease of maintenance.
- There is a discussion on software compilation, gaming performance, efficiency, environmental impact, and the role of customization and configurability in operating systems. Overall, opinions about Gentoo vary, but it is generally praised for its customization options and educational value, although some find it time-consuming or prefer alternatives.

## [Seeking Advanced Programming Courses for Experienced Coders: Recommendations for Learning Elixir](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38804603)

- The person is currently learning Elixir and is looking for resources that are more advanced and suitable for experienced coders.
- They feel that the popular resources available are too beginner-focused and want to explore programming books or courses that cater to their level of expertise.
- The individual is seeking recommendations for resources that can help them further their understanding and skills in Elixir as a more experienced programmer.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38804603)

- The lack of advanced programming resources and the challenges in creating and pricing such resources are discussed.
- Participants recommend books, courses, and resources related to computer programming and systems for improving programming skills.
- The discussion explores the importance of practical knowledge, understanding large codebases, limitations of AI models for programming, and the value of mentoring and clean coding practices.

## [Differences in Virtualization: Apple Silicon vs. Intel Macs](https://eclecticlight.co/2023/12/29/why-are-apple-silicon-vms-so-different/)

- Apple has implemented device support in macOS using Virtio drivers, enabling efficient virtualization on Apple silicon Macs.
- This approach provides Apple with more control over hardware and feature support, but it diminishes the commercial value for third-party virtualization vendors.
- Virtualization on Apple silicon Macs offers flexibility for running older macOS versions and incompatible software, and the article suggests that the lightweight virtualization and Virtio could drive further growth in the field.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38803556)

- The article compares the performance and compatibility issues of running Windows on virtual machines (VMs) on Apple Silicon compared to Windows VMs reliant on Hyper-V.
- Participants discuss the use of Hyper-V for security features and compatibility with Linux and Windows operating systems but express mixed opinions on using VMs for securing software applications.
- Users share experiences and recommendations for running Windows apps and games on Mac, including translation layers like Crossover and cloud gaming services like GeForce Now. Additionally, frustrations about file management on Apple devices are discussed, with alternative apps and services suggested.

## [US Steel's Decline: Lacking Innovation and Falling Behind Minimills](https://www.construction-physics.com/p/no-inventions-no-innovations-a-history)

- US Steel has faced a decline in market share and profitability in the American steel industry.
- Competition from low-cost steelmakers abroad and efficient minimills at home contributed to this decline.
- US Steel struggled to adopt new technologies and faced challenges in terms of efficiency and innovation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38807720)

- The decline of the US steel industry compared to Germany and Japan is attributed to mismanagement and prioritization of executive pay over innovation and upgrades.
- The discussion also addresses the decline of the US auto industry and the impact of US money and loans provided to other countries.
- Different perspectives on the outcomes of wars, such as the Korean War, Vietnam War, and the ongoing conflict in Afghanistan, are explored, along with the importance of clear political objectives in warfare.

## [Copyright: A Monetization Strategy, not a Moral Right](https://twitter.com/Plinz/status/1740597001652461895)

- Copyright is often viewed as a means to generate profit rather than as a moral entitlement, which can have implications for different business models.
- Certain business models may benefit from copyright protection, while others may face obstacles or limitations.
- The discussion around copyright highlights the tension between economic interests and ethical considerations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38803614)

- The article discusses the impact of copyright laws on creators, corporations, and society.
- It explores the criticism of current copyright laws that favor corporations and limit public access to creative works.
- The conversation covers topics such as the benefits and drawbacks of abolishing copyright, the role of platforms like Spotify in the music industry, and the abuse of copyright laws by big corporations.

## [The Linux Backdoor Attempt of 2003: A Deep Dive into Programming, Cybersecurity, and Open Source](https://freedom-to-tinker.com/2013/10/09/the-linux-backdoor-attempt-of-2003/)

- The passage covers topics such as attempted backdoor insertion into the Linux kernel and the importance of trusted systems in warfare.
- It discusses concerns about cryptographic methods and the need for validation and tracking in open source development.
- The author also talks about coding techniques, compiler behavior, and the use of if statements in programming languages, as well as the benefits of open source software and criticism of closed source code.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38805439)

- The discussion touches on a range of topics, including a previous hacking incident in Linux and challenges in government jobs.
- It also examines the effectiveness of compilers and tools in identifying errors, the security implications of privilege elevations in operating systems, and the debate between open-source and proprietary software regarding security.
- The concept of backdoors and their exploitation is explored, and recommendations are provided for a reliable remote administration tool for controlling Windows machines from a Linux box.

## [How the append-only b+tree improves data storage and access efficiency](https://www.bzero.se/ldapd/btree.html)

- The append-only b+tree is a data structure commonly used for efficient storage and retrieval of data.
- It is made up of branch and leaf pages, with the leaf pages containing the actual data and keys.
- Rather than supporting leaf chaining for sequential access, each update involves appending a new page to the file and updating the parent pages, ensuring a consistent snapshot of the database without the need for a transaction log. This approach is more efficient for writing consecutive pages to disk, but may waste disk space.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38805383)

- Various techniques and approaches are explored to optimize write amplification, reduce garbage data, and improve the efficiency of different tree structures.
- The use of append-only btrees, CoW data structures, and log-structured approaches in systems like ZFS and LMDB are discussed.
- The concept of persistent data structures and their benefits in functional programming is highlighted, along with the challenges and trade-offs involved in choosing these data structures. The importance of optimizing disk reads and maximizing page efficiency in databases is also emphasized.

## [Koka: Advanced Functional Language with Effect Types and Handlers](https://koka-lang.github.io/koka/doc/index.html)

- Koka is a strongly typed functional language that incorporates effect types and handlers.
- The language offers advanced control abstractions and utilizes reference counting for efficient memory usage.
- Although Koka has a complete compiler implementation and is stable, it is still in the research phase and not recommended for production use.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38810073)

- The conversations revolve around the Koka programming language and its features, such as effect types, algebraic effects, and handlers.
- Topics covered include category theory, type systems, advanced compilation techniques for performance optimization, and the use of Koka in advanced functional programming projects.
- Koka's ability to compile to C code without a garbage collector, its integration with existing C-WASM projects, and its handling system similar to Common Lisp conditions are also mentioned.
- The advantages and limitations of Koka, its use of exceptions for control-flow, and its support for circular event invocations and extension functions are discussed.
- The difference between monad transformers and algebraic-effect systems and the potential ease of optimization are compared.
- There is a brief mention of Koka's wasm support and the suggestion of using emscripten for stack switching.

## [UK's Viking Link interconnector brings cheaper and greener power](https://www.nationalgrid.com/national-grid-announces-commercial-operations-viking-link-worlds-longest-land-and-subsea)

- National Grid has announced the completion of Viking Link, the world's longest land and subsea interconnector, stretching 475 miles between the UK and Denmark.
- The £1.7 billion project has the capacity to power up to 2.5 million homes and is expected to save UK consumers over £500 million in the first ten years through cheaper imported power from Denmark.
- Viking Link is also estimated to reduce carbon emissions by 600,000 tonnes in its first year of operation, while increasing security of supply and decreasing prices for consumers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38807001)

- The UK has launched the longest land/subsea interconnector to balance energy flows and reduce variability of renewable energy.
- Closure of the last coal-fired power plant in the UK is discussed, highlighting the importance of grid stability and dependence on gas imports.
- Interconnects are being built with mainland Europe and Scotland to manage production and demand spikes, though grid capacity remains a bottleneck.

## [Debunking the Myth: Roman Soldiers Were Not Paid in Salt](http://kiwihellenist.blogspot.com/2017/01/salt-and-salary.html)

- This article debunks the popular myth that Roman soldiers were paid in salt, providing evidence that they were not actually compensated with it.
- It explores the origins of the word "salary" and its connection to salt, shedding light on the historical use of salt as currency in Ethiopia and other cultures.
- The article emphasizes the importance of knowledge and wisdom in debunking myths, and briefly mentions discussions and comments on related blog posts and social media accounts in the field of classical studies and ancient history.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38803589)

- The articles and discussions explore a variety of subjects, including the payment of Roman soldiers in salt and the significance of salt in ancient societies.
- They also touch on topics like the belief in a flat Earth in ancient cultures, the Galileo affair, and the conflict between religion and science.
- The discussions provide multiple perspectives and address related subjects such as food safety, historical events, and the reliability of information provided by experts and governments.

## [Ghosting in Tech Recruiting: Lack of Communication Leaves Candidates in Limbo](https://medium.com/@k0ryk/everyones-getting-ghosted-dbf0fbaf161)

- Ghosting, the act of abruptly cutting off communication with candidates, is a prevalent issue in tech recruiting.
- The author shares their personal experience of being ghosted by a company and the impact it had on them.
- Lack of incentives and enforcement of a nonperformative policy contribute to the prevalence of ghosting in the tech industry.
- The author argues for the importance of closing the loop with rejected candidates and treating them with dignity and respect.
- Recruiters should be more aware and ensure that communication is maintained with candidates.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38806473)

- Ghosting, the practice of abruptly cutting off communication with job candidates, is a prevalent issue in the tech industry's hiring process.
- The discussion emphasizes the importance of treating candidates with respect and prioritizing the recruiting process.
- Challenges in hiring and talent identification are acknowledged, as well as the lack of recognition and compensation for interviewers. Timely and respectful communication during the recruitment process is deemed essential.
- The negative impact of ghosting on job applicants is discussed, including the decline in providing feedback to candidates.
- Companies that engage in ghosting may face potential consequences.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Switch to Firefox in 2024 for Privacy & Web Development" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Switch%20to%20Firefox%20in%202024%20for%20Privacy%20%26%20Web%20Development&subheading=Saturday%2C%20December%2030%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
