---
slug: '/2023/12/31'
---

# 2023-12-31

## [Author Victor Eijkhout Takes a Deep Dive into High-Performance Computing](https://theartofhpc.com/)

- Victor Eijkhout has written a series of textbooks covering different topics in high-performance computing (HPC).
- The first two volumes provide an introduction to scientific computing and parallel programming using MPI and OpenMP.
- The third and fourth volumes introduce C++17, Fortran2008, and other topics in the scientific computing ecosystem.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38815334)

- The discussion on Hacker News covers a range of topics related to high-performance computing (HPC) and data centers, including increasing compute power, liquid cooling, and power requirements.
- Participants emphasize the importance of understanding computer architecture and optimizing code for performance in HPC.
- Workload management systems and the effectiveness of different HPC systems are also discussed. Additionally, there are suggested resources for learning C++ programming for HPC and mentions of queuing theory and the reputation of UT Austin in HPC.

## [The Decline of SEO: Evaluating Search Engines and ChatGPT for Reliable Results](https://danluu.com/seo-spam/)

- The decline in search engine optimization (SEO) and the rise of content farms are discussed, underscoring the importance of improving search result quality.
- The article examines the accuracy of search engines and ChatGPT in providing trustworthy answers, while addressing the issue of misleading content and fraudulent websites.
- There is a bias towards advertising in search engines, and the article argues for the development of a transparent and competitive search engine.
- Issues with specific queries like downloading YouTube videos and finding an ad blocker are explored, uncovering scam websites and deceptive practices.
- The limitations of Google's search engine are highlighted, along with potential advantages of smaller search engines.
- Problems with ad blockers and misinformation from various sources are also addressed, advocating for reliable information and awareness of scams.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38821248)

- This article compares search results from various search engines, including Google, Bing, Marginalia, Kagi, Mwmbl, and ChatGPT.
- The author praises Google for its good results but questions the accuracy of bad results presented.
- Users express frustration with local results prioritization on Bing and DuckDuckGo.

## [Challenges of Copyright Infringement in Generative AI](https://garymarcus.substack.com/p/things-are-about-to-get-a-lot-worse)

- Generative AI, such as OpenAI's chatbots and image software, poses challenges in relation to copyright infringement due to its ability to reproduce text and images almost identically.
- The lack of transparency and attribution in generative AI systems raises concerns about potential legal issues for companies like OpenAI and Microsoft.
- Tracking the provenance of generative text and images through a new architecture may be necessary to address copyright infringement in the future.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38814093)

- This article explores the debate surrounding generative AI and copyright infringement, focusing on the importance of cultural expression and storytelling, as well as concerns about trademark infringement.
- It presents various perspectives on the influence of copyright on the creative industry, with some advocating for less strict copyright and others emphasizing its role in protecting creators.
- The article discusses specific legal cases, proposed updates to copyright laws, and the potential impact of copyright laws on companies like Microsoft and OpenAI. It also addresses concerns about data integrity and plagiarism in the context of generative AI.

## [Amazon's Silent Layoffs: Stock Problem Forces Job Cuts, Raises Concerns over Operational Practices](https://justingarrison.com/blog/2023-12-30-amazons-silent-sacking/)

- Amazon has laid off over 27,000 employees, mostly in the retail sector, to reduce operational expenses.
- Many employees, especially those in higher positions, want to leave due to compensation concerns.
- The value of spending on Amazon's AWS is decreasing as customers cut costs, and the company is lagging behind in AI.
- Amazon is giving away high-margin services for free and may shift to a more centralized organizational structure in the coming year.
- Predictions suggest there may be a major AWS outage in 2024 due to the silent layoffs of employees.
- Employees who have been laid off are not receiving severance packages, and the company is trying to retain headcount without officially announcing layoffs.
- This practice may continue in 2024 as companies prioritize short-term profits.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38818319)

- There is a shift in the corporate world, particularly in Silicon Valley, where employees are now viewed as expenses rather than investments.
- The impact on innovation is questioned, as companies prioritizing employee care are seen as less disruptive.
- The importance of ethical business practices and the belief in good and evil within humans is discussed.

## [Ugrep: A Powerful, Fast, and User-Friendly File Pattern Searcher with Advanced Features](https://ugrep.com/)

- The ugrep file pattern searcher is a robust alternative to the grep command, providing powerful features and functionality.
- ugrep can search nested archives, hexdump binary files, and search PDFs and other document types.
- It offers various matching modes, search options, and output formatting capabilities, and supports standard POSIX ERE pattern syntax with added support for Unicode.
- ugrep is a command-line tool that can be installed on different operating systems.
- For faster searching in large file systems, the ugrep-indexer tool can be used to index directories.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38819262)

- Users are discussing and comparing different grep utilities, specifically ugrep and ripgrep.
- The conversation focuses on the compatibility, performance, and features of these tools.
- There is also a discussion about the importance of personal preference when choosing between them.
- Other topics include regex libraries, pagers, and the implementation of flags like --word-regexp.
- There is a debate about the necessity of claiming a new grep tool to be more powerful, ultra-fast, user-friendly, and compatible than others.
- The meaning of "user-friendly" in the context of grep is also discussed.

## [Approaching Low-Code Solutions with Skepticism and Caution](https://nick.scialli.me/blog/why-im-skeptical-of-low-code/)

- The author raises skepticism about low-code solutions, highlighting concerns about their ability to handle custom functionality and reliance on specialized talent.
- Difficulties with upgrades and messy underlying databases are also mentioned as potential drawbacks of low-code solutions.
- The author advises approaching these tools with caution and skepticism, acknowledging that they may have their advantages but also potential disadvantages.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38816135)

- The discussion focuses on the skepticism and limitations of low-code development tools.
- Participants highlight challenges such as lack of documentation, testing, and version control.
- The conversation also addresses potential benefits and limitations of low code in different contexts, like software engineering, data projects, and website development.

## [ScummVM: Play Classic Adventure Games and RPGs on Mac App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/scummvm/id6446184412)

- ScummVM is a Mac App Store app that lets users play classic graphical adventure games and RPGs.
- Users need to provide their own game data files for the app to work.
- The app is open source and does not collect any user data. It is best played with a controller.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38816029)

- Monkey Island games have been removed from the Apple App Store, leading to frustration among users.
- The conversation covers topics such as backward compatibility in software and the use of the ScummVM emulator.
- There is also discussion about Apple's distribution of GPL software and potential violations of the license.
- The appeal of older video games is debated, with arguments both for and against their charm and gameplay in modern times.

## [Using Indents for Simpler UIs: A New Approach to Displaying Tree-Like Lists](https://ratfactor.com/cards/fake-trees)

- The author proposes using indents instead of a parent-child structure to display tree-like lists in a user interface (UI).
- They argue that the visual appearance of the tree is often more important than the actual relationship between items.
- The author provides examples and pseudocode to help implement this technique, but also advises that it may not be suitable for all scenarios and suggests alternative methods for situations requiring a true tree structure.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38815150)

- The article examines different UI methods for representing trees, including indentation.
- It discusses the challenge of finding existing knowledge in problem-solving processes and suggests using ChatGPT to identify industry terms.
- Frustrations with reinventing the wheel, software bugs, and the declining popularity of relational databases are mentioned.
- The benefits and drawbacks of organizing data as trees and the use of recursive CTEs in SQL queries are explored.
- Code quality responsibility, DOM manipulation, and different approaches to storing and manipulating tree-like data are touched upon.
- The concept of "fake trees" and their use cases are presented, with varying opinions on their sufficiency.
- Alternative methods for storing hierarchical data, such as MPTT/nested set model and linked lists, are suggested.
- The importance of considering data and schema when choosing a storage method is emphasized.
- Some commenters express skepticism about using indentation in a database for a tree structure.
- The article is criticized for being clickbaity and lacking depth, with the comment thread described as random and nonsensical.

## [Tether Partners with Secret Service and FBI, Demonstrates Commitment to Security](https://finance.yahoo.com/news/tether-reveals-partnerships-secret-fbi-053041589.html)

- Tether has disclosed its collaborations with the Secret Service and FBI in a letter to the U.S. Senate, showcasing its focus on security and cooperation with law enforcement agencies.
- The CEO, Paolo Ardoino, mentioned that Tether has helped in freezing wallets holding 435 million USDT tokens and has an ongoing partnership with the FBI.
- By making these letters public, Tether intends to highlight its dedication to safeguarding the stability and trustworthiness of its stablecoin.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38817271)

- Tether, a stablecoin company, has faced criticism regarding its partnerships with law enforcement agencies, with critics arguing that these partnerships are more about compliance with regulations than genuine collaborations.
- Concerns have been raised about the legitimacy and transparency of Tether, as well as allegations of its involvement in money laundering.
- The discussion also addresses the practice of fractional reserve in the cryptocurrency industry and the impact of Chinese regulations on real estate and cryptocurrency mining.

## [Unveiling the Hidden Gems of Moreutils: Execsnoop, Ts, Sponge, Vidir, Vipe, and Pee](https://jpospisil.com/2023/12/19/the-hidden-gems-of-moreutils)

- The article highlights lesser-known command line utilities called moreutils, including tools like execsnoop, ts, sponge, vidir, vipe, and pee.
- Execsnoop enables tracking program invocations with timestamps, while ts can convert timestamps into relative times.
- Other utilities mentioned include sponge for saving modifications to a file, vidir for editing files and directories, vipe for editing output between pipes, and pee for passing data to multiple commands and collecting their output.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38814599)

- The article and comments explore the hidden features of the moreutils package, focusing on its file manipulation and data transfer capabilities.
- The conversation delves into various tools and commands for command parallelization in Unix systems, like xargs and GNU parallel.
- There is a debate regarding the efficiency of the seq command in shell scripting, with participants discussing pros and cons.
- The discussions emphasize the importance of specifying behavior using flags or environment variables and advocate for including moreutils in core distributions.

## [UK Museums Prohibited from Charging Reproduction Fees for Historic Artworks, Court of Appeal Rules](https://www.theartnewspaper.com/2023/12/29/court-of-appeal-ruling-will-prevent-uk-museums-from-charging-reproduction-feesat-last)

- The Court of Appeal in the UK has ruled that museums cannot charge fees to reproduce historic artworks if the original work is out of copyright.
- Museums have been using copyright to restrict the use of images and require expensive licenses, but the ruling confirms this practice as incorrect.
- The ruling renders copyright symbols on UK museum websites and catalogues irrelevant for out-of-copyright artwork.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38817128)

- The UK Court of Appeal has issued a ruling that restricts museums from charging reproduction fees for images of artworks, citing copyright law and the importance of creative freedom.
- The ruling has implications for language models and the use of out-of-copyright images in artistic transformations, raising questions about copyright for collages and word lists, potential loopholes in copyright laws, the EU database directive, and the impact on AI-generated art.
- The decision also sparks debate around the necessity of copyright laws, the value of cultural artifacts, and the duration of copyright protection.

## [Maersk ship hit by missile; US Navy successfully intercepts attackers](https://gcaptain.com/maersk-ship-hit-by-missile-in-the-red-sea/)

- A Maersk containership named Maersk Hangzhou was targeted by a missile in the Red Sea during its journey through the Southern Red Sea.
- The ship promptly reported the incident and requested assistance, leading to the response of USS Gravely and USS Laboon.
- The USS Gravely successfully intercepted and destroyed two anti-ship ballistic missiles fired from Houthi-controlled areas in Yemen, ensuring the safety of the vessel and crew.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38821372)

- The text contains discussions and comments about missile attacks, wars, conflicts, international relations, military responses, nuclear weapons, and their consequences.
- Specific countries mentioned include Russia, Iran, North Korea, Yemen, Ukraine, and the US.
- The conversations highlight the complexities and challenges associated with these conflicts.

## [Introducing DRµGS: Enhancing Output Variety with Deep Random Micro-Glitch Sampling](https://github.com/EGjoni/DRUGS)

- DRµGS is a repository that introduces a method called Deep Random Micro-Glitch Sampling (DRµGS) to inject noise into transformer layers during inference, increasing output variety while maintaining coherence.
- The repository currently supports LLaMA and mistral models, providing implementations and experimental data for four types of DRµGs: Q, K, V, and A.
- Potential negative side effects of DRµGS are addressed with a "cold_shower" function included in the repository.
- Visualizations are available to showcase the effects of injecting noise at different layers of the model.
- Contributions and experimentation with DRµGS are encouraged.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38816429)

- DRµGS is a project on GitHub that aims to introduce randomness into generative AI models.
- Discussions among users revolve around the impact of this approach on the model's output and whether it enhances its performance.
- The conversation also veers off into unrelated topics such as the project creator's reputation and the use of drugs by software engineers.

## [Amazon Accused of Selling Damaged Books, Prompting Legal Concerns](https://twitter.com/joabaldwin/status/1741145625809559933)

- The person is upset and seeking advice after discovering that someone purchased their returned and damaged copy from Amazon.
- They are concerned about the legality of this situation and want to know how to handle it and prevent it from happening again in the future.
- It is unclear what specific actions or details led to the person's anger and concern.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38818578)

- The service is currently experiencing issues and is not able to process user requests.
- Users are being prompted to reload the page in order to try accessing the service again.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Author Victor Eijkhout Takes a Deep Dive into High-Performance Computing" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Author%20Victor%20Eijkhout%20Takes%20a%20Deep%20Dive%20into%20High-Performance%20Computing&subheading=Sunday%2C%20December%2031%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
