---
slug: '/2024/06/01'
---

# 2024-06-01

## [Hand-Drawn UI Components for Wireframes and Mockups with Wired Elements](https://wiredjs.com/)

- Wired Elements offers UI components with a hand-drawn, sketchy look, perfect for wireframes, mockups, or a playful design.
- Compatible with multiple frameworks including Vanilla, Vue, Svelte, and React, and built using RoughJS and Lit.
- Open-source under the MIT License, with detailed documentation available on GitHub, and support options via Open Collective or GitHub.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40540952)

- A Hacker News discussion examines a UI library from wiredjs.com that features hand-drawn, sketchy elements, sparking nostalgia and debate on its practicality in modern web development.
- Users compare it to tools like Balsamiq Wireframes for quick prototyping and discuss the importance of visual presentation in user testing, mentioning tools like TinyUX, WireframeSketcher, QuickMockup, and Excalidraw.
- The conversation also touches on design trends such as skeuomorphism versus flat design, licensing concerns, and the impact of visual completeness on feedback focus.

## [Windows 11's Copilot+ Recall Sparks Privacy and Security Concerns](https://doublepulsar.com/recall-stealing-everything-youve-ever-typed-or-viewed-on-your-own-windows-pc-is-now-possible-da3e12e9465e)

- Microsoft's new Windows 11 feature, Copilot+ Recall, automatically takes and stores searchable screenshots of user activity, raising privacy and security concerns.
- Critic Kevin Beaumont argues the feature is poorly implemented and communicated, making sensitive data vulnerable to hackers and malware, despite Microsoft's security claims.
- The feature is enabled by default, potentially leading to mass data breaches and misuse of personal information, prompting calls for Microsoft to urgently rework or recall the feature to maintain customer trust and comply with privacy regulations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40540703)

- Microsoft's "Recall" feature for tracking user activity on Windows PCs has raised significant privacy concerns, with critics accusing the company of invasive data collection and favoring its Edge browser.
- The discussion suggests switching to Linux for better privacy and control, highlighting the strategic role of the Linux subsystem and the impact of GitHub's acquisition on tools like OpenAI Codex and GitHub Copilot.
- Users express broader dissatisfaction with Windows, preferring Linux to avoid being test subjects and to maintain better user control and privacy.

## [ROOT: The Backbone of Scientific Data Analysis and Higgs Boson Discovery](https://root.cern/)

- ROOT is a high-performance, open-source software written in C++ for scientific data analysis and visualization, capable of handling over 1 exabyte of data.
- It played a crucial role in the discovery of the Higgs boson and is compatible with Linux, macOS, and Windows, integrating well with Python and Jupyter notebooks.
- Recent updates include a default web-based canvas, the new TScatter class, and the upcoming RNTuple system, with the latest release being version 6.32/00 as of May 2024.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40543651)

- The discussion highlights ROOT, a data analysis framework in particle physics, praised for handling histograms and structured data but criticized for its complex API and technical debt.
- Comparisons with modern tools like matplotlib, uproot, and Julia are made, noting ROOT's specific advantages and shortcomings, and the potential use of Haskell for interfaces and C++ for performance.
- The evolution of ROOT, including its transition to a clang-based codebase, integration with Jupyter, and improvements in code quality, is noted, along with the impact of tools like ChatGPT on simplifying complex APIs and concerns about software quality as Large Language Models improve.

## [WWVB: The Unsung Hero of Accurate Timekeeping in the U.S.](https://ben.page/wwvb)

- WWVB is a radio station in Colorado operated by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, broadcasting the current time on a 60 kHz frequency.
- This low-frequency signal enables radio clocks across the U.S. to set themselves accurately by reading the broadcast daily and adjusting for time zones.
- The post emphasizes the cleverness and innovation of this technology, underscoring the significance of past contributions to modern conveniences.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40541559)

- The discussion traces the origins of radio time signals, starting with the US Navy's first broadcast in 1903 and earlier proposals by Sir Howard Grubb.
- It examines the evolution of time synchronization technology, including the use of radio signals and the introduction of radio-controlled wristwatches.
- The conversation also explores the potential of GNSS (Global Navigation Satellite System) signals for emergency alerts and the technical aspects of low-frequency signals for timekeeping.

## [Napster's Legacy: How a 1999 Revolution Shaped Today's Music Streaming Industry](https://torrentfreak.com/napster-sparked-a-file-sharing-revolution-25-years-ago-250601/)

- Napster, launched in 1999, revolutionized music consumption by enabling global file-sharing, which led to widespread music piracy.
- Despite its shutdown in 2001 due to legal battles, Napster's influence inspired legal digital music services like Apple's iTunes and streaming platforms such as Spotify.
- The current music industry, thriving on streaming subscriptions, traces its origins back to Napster's disruptive impact.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40545436)

- Napster's launch 25 years ago revolutionized file-sharing, paving the way for platforms like The Pirate Bay and tools such as Lidarr, Sonarr, and Radarr, which often provide higher-quality media than official releases.
- The text discusses the evolution of file-sharing, from Napster to BitTorrent, and the legal challenges faced by platforms like KaZaA, highlighting the meticulous organization of pirated content by fans and the impact of digital rights management (DRM).
- It also explores the shift in the music industry due to streaming services like Spotify, the democratization of art through Generative AI, and the ethical considerations of copyright laws, including Richard Stallman's views on public redistribution rights.

## [Heroku Unveils Postgres Essential Plans on AWS Aurora with Enhanced Performance](https://blog.heroku.com/heroku-postgres-essential-launch)

- Heroku has introduced new Postgres Essential database plans built on Amazon Aurora, enhancing performance and removing row count limits.
- These plans, starting at $5 per month, support advanced search functionalities with pgvector and are fully managed, making them suitable for development, prototyping, education, and low-traffic web apps.
- Existing Mini and Basic plans will be migrated to Essential plans starting May 29, 2024, with future enhancements including single-tenant databases, scalable storage, and additional Postgres extensions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40539172)

- Heroku Postgres has transitioned to AWS Aurora, leading to mixed reactions due to performance issues, operational challenges, and high costs compared to traditional Postgres or RDS Postgres.
- Aurora's advanced features, such as high availability and IO-optimized configurations, are praised, but its complexities and costs are significant concerns, prompting users to consider alternatives like Render, Crunchy Data, and AWS Aurora.
- Discussions emphasize the trade-offs between managed services and self-hosting, highlighting the importance of database management skills and the benefits of focusing on core business activities.

## [Navigating Life Without Google: Challenges and Alternatives Explored](https://blog.nradk.com/posts/degoogling/)

- The author is attempting to reduce reliance on Google products, exploring alternatives like DuckDuckGo and Kagi for search, and ProtonMail and Fastmail for email.
- They self-host Immich for photo storage, use a home server for file storage, and employ NextCloud for calendar and contacts, appreciating its app compatibility.
- Despite using GrapheneOS for privacy, they still rely on Google Maps and YouTube for their comprehensive features, concluding that while avoiding Google is challenging, privacy-friendly alternatives and self-hosting are viable options.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40539031)

- The discussion focuses on reducing dependence on Google to improve privacy and avoid account loss, weighing partial versus complete abandonment of Google services.
- Users criticize Google's extensive data tracking and targeted advertising, comparing it to stalking and highlighting potential abuse, while exploring alternatives like FastMail, ProtonMail, and different search engines.
- The debate reveals the complexity of moving away from big tech, especially for non-tech-savvy users, and emphasizes the need for increased awareness and solutions to prevent data misuse.

## [Go Error Handling: Sentinel Errors and errors.Is() Can Slow Code by Over 500%](https://www.dolthub.com/blog/2024-05-31-benchmarking-go-error-handling/)

- Zach Musgrave's blog post benchmarks various error handling strategies in Go, revealing significant performance differences, particularly with the sentinel error pattern using errors.Is(), which can slow down code by over 5x.
- The study found that boolean checks were the fastest method, while using panic for error handling was the slowest. The blog provides detailed performance metrics and discusses the trade-offs of each approach.
- The author supports avoiding sentinel errors for better performance and code clarity, aligning with expert opinions like Dave Cheney's, and highlights the benefits of Go's multiple return values for efficient error handling.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40539700)

- The blog post initially claimed that using `errors.Is()` in Go slowed down code by 3000%, later corrected to 500% due to compiler optimizations, but the rank ordering of techniques remained unchanged.
- The discussion concluded that Go's error handling overhead is generally negligible, with trade-offs for simplicity and ergonomics often being worth it, and compared error handling performance across various programming languages.
- The text emphasizes the trade-offs in Go between wrapping errors for more information and using simple errors for faster comparison, highlighting the importance of efficient error handling and varying approaches across different languages.

## [Hugging Face Responds to Security Breach, Revokes Tokens and Enhances Measures](https://huggingface.co/blog/space-secrets-disclosure)

- Hugging Face identified unauthorized access to their Spaces platform, potentially compromising some Spaces secrets, and revoked affected HF tokens.
- Users are advised to refresh their keys and switch to fine-grained access tokens as part of enhanced security measures.
- The company is working with cybersecurity experts to investigate and improve security, including removing org tokens, implementing key management services, and enhancing token leak detection.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40544875)

- Jossef Harush Kadouri disclosed a security risk with AI models from platforms like Huggingface, which can execute arbitrary code on a user's machine if compromised.
- The risk is due to these models being Python scripts rather than just data matrices, despite safer formats like ONNX and .safetensors being available.
- Huggingface acknowledged a security breach and has since upgraded their security measures, emphasizing the need for robust security audits and caution with insecure serialization formats like pickle.

## [Windows 11's Recall Feature Raises Major Security and Privacy Concerns](https://simonwillison.net/2024/Jun/1/stealing-everything-youve-ever-typed/#atom-everything)

- Simon Willison's blog highlights a new Windows 11 feature called Recall, which captures periodic screenshots, performs Optical Character Recognition (OCR), and stores the text in a SQLite database for easy searching.
- While potentially useful for busy professionals, the feature poses significant security and privacy risks, as malware could target the database containing sensitive information.
- Despite protections like Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, data could be compromised before remediation, making the feature beneficial for a small subset of users but potentially harmful for the general user base.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40543990)

- Hacker News users are discussing "Recall," a tool that can capture everything typed or viewed on a Windows PC, raising significant privacy and security concerns.
- The debate includes whether Simon Willison's summary is sufficient or if linking to the original, more detailed article is necessary for proper context.
- The conversation also explores the broader implications of such surveillance tools, with some users acknowledging potential benefits despite the associated risks.

## [NGINX Unit 1.32.1: Versatile Open-Source Web Application Server Released](https://unit.nginx.org/)

- NGINX Unit is a lightweight, versatile, open-source web application server that integrates application runtime, static asset serving, TLS handling, and request routing.
- The latest version, 1.32.1, was released on March 26, 2024, offering enhanced efficiency and runtime configurability.
- For more details, users can refer to the GitHub page for a quickstart guide, changelog, release notes, and future roadmap.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40543330)

- The discussion compares web servers and application runtimes, focusing on Nginx Unit, Caddy, and traditional Nginx, highlighting their respective strengths and weaknesses.
- Nginx Unit is praised for dynamic reconfiguration and multi-language support but criticized for lacking built-in Let's Encrypt SSL support and having configuration challenges.
- Caddy is noted for ease of use and automatic TLS, though some users find it overhyped and less performant than Nginx, while traditional Nginx is favored for stability and performance.

## [Ticketmaster Data Breach Exposes 560M Customers' Information, Hackers Demand Ransom](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cw99ql0239wo)

- Live Nation, Ticketmaster's parent company, confirmed a data breach affecting potentially 560 million customers globally, with hackers ShinyHunters claiming responsibility.
- The stolen data includes names, addresses, phone numbers, and partial credit card details, with hackers demanding a $500,000 ransom to prevent the sale of the data.
- The breach is linked to a larger hack involving cloud service provider Snowflake, affecting other companies like Santander, and users are advised to be vigilant against phishing attempts and monitor their financial accounts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40544219)

- Ticketmaster has confirmed a data breach that could potentially impact 560 million people worldwide.
- Discussions on Hacker News suggest merging two separate threads about the incident for better coherence, with an admin agreeing to the suggestion.
- The conversation includes light-hearted remarks about the admin's responsiveness and the platform's functionality.

## [The Best Web Browsers for Privacy and Security: Tor, Brave, and Firefox Lead the Pack](https://stackdiary.com/ticketmaster-confirms-data-breach-with-a-sec-filing/)

- The article reviews web browsers focusing on privacy and security, highlighting Tor, Brave, and Firefox for their strong privacy tools like ad-blocking, anti-tracking, and encryption.
- It emphasizes the significance of regular updates and user control over settings to improve online safety.
- The review aims to guide users in choosing browsers that best protect their privacy and security.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40543408)

- Ticketmaster confirmed a data breach in an SEC filing, connected to a larger hack involving Snowflake, raising significant concerns about data security and corporate accountability.
- Users are frustrated over potential fraud and perceive inadequate security investments despite high fees, sparking discussions on the implications for customers and the inefficacy of corporate responses.
- The incident has led to debates about Ticketmaster's response, the prioritization of shareholders over customers, and signs of public "breach fatigue," indicating desensitization to such news.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Hand-Drawn UI Components for Wireframes and Mockups with Wired Elements" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Hand-Drawn%20UI%20Components%20for%20Wireframes%20and%20Mockups%20with%20Wired%20Elements&subheading=Saturday%2C%20June%201%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
