---
slug: '/2024/06/04'
---

# 2024-06-04

## [Exposing ISP Vulnerabilities: A Personal Journey from Hacked Modem to Major Security Flaw](https://samcurry.net/hacking-millions-of-modems)

- Two years ago, the author discovered their HTTP traffic was being intercepted by an unknown IP address, traced to DigitalOcean, indicating a compromised modem.
- After replacing the modem, the author found vulnerabilities in Cox Business's API, allowing unauthorized access to sensitive customer information and device settings.
- Cox promptly addressed the significant security flaw after being notified, underscoring the importance of robust security measures for ISPs and highlighting trust issues between ISPs and customer devices.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40570781)

- A Hacker News user, xrayarx, posted an article about hacking millions of modems, which had previously been posted by another user, albinowax\_, who didn't receive karma for it.
- Moderator dang moved the comments to albinowax\_'s post to ensure proper credit, sparking a discussion about posting times and the need for a better karma-sharing system.
- The incident highlights the community's concerns about fair credit and recognition for original content contributions.

## [Why LeetCode-Style Interviews Fail to Reflect Real Software Engineering Skills](https://nelson.cloud/i-am-so-sick-of-leetcode-style-interviews/)

- The author criticizes Leetcode-style interviews, arguing they don't accurately reflect the real responsibilities of a software engineering job.
- Despite advice from experienced engineers that memorizing easily searchable information is unnecessary, these interviews still focus on such trivia.
- The author, experienced in AWS, Kubernetes, and Ruby on Rails, calls for more practical assessments and invites job offers that don't rely on such quizzes.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40571395)

- The discussion critiques LeetCode-style interviews for being stressful but effective at filtering out unqualified candidates, though their ability to assess true technical talent is debated.
- Alternatives like simpler coding challenges, pair programming, and practical problem-solving tasks are suggested to better evaluate candidates' abilities and fit.
- Concerns about the fairness and effectiveness of standardized technical interviews, especially in high-paying tech companies, are raised, with some advocating for more job-relevant assessments.

## [SvelteKit App Initialization: Setting Base URL and Asynchronous Module Import](https://tree-diffusion.github.io/)

- The code snippet initializes a SvelteKit application by setting the base URL and identifying the parent element of the current script.
- It then asynchronously imports and starts the SvelteKit application using the specified modules.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40569531)

- The discussion highlights the integration of syntax tree mutations in program synthesis with modern machine learning techniques, drawing parallels to genetic algorithms and hint generation.
- Recent advancements like FFX (Fast Function Extraction) and PGE (Probabilistic Grammar-based Evolution) are noted as faster alternatives to traditional methods, addressing challenges like subtree mutation and premature convergence.
- The conversation also explores advanced optimization tools beyond current compiler capabilities, including neural models, diffusion techniques, and the feasibility of training diffusion models to generate executable binaries.

## [Nike Unveils Koheesio: A Python Framework for Advanced Data Pipelines](https://github.com/Nike-Inc/koheesio)

- Koheesio is a Python framework aimed at building efficient, modular data pipelines, enhancing collaboration and reusability.
- It integrates with various data processing libraries, supports type safety and structured configurations using Pydantic, and includes components like Steps, Context, and Logger.
- Koheesio supports PySpark for tasks such as ETL (Extract, Transform, Load), data validation, and large-scale processing, and can be installed via pip, Hatch, or Poetry.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40570892)

- Nike has developed a Python-based framework named Koheesio for constructing advanced data pipelines, addressing internal data engineering challenges such as reliance on temporary contractors, convoluted SQL, and poor documentation.
- Opinions on Koheesio are mixed; some view it as beneficial for less experienced developers, while others criticize it for not promoting proper learning, with comparisons made to tools like Apache Beam and Luigi.
- Despite skepticism, Koheesio is appreciated by some for its structured approach to error handling and logging, highlighting the variability in software quality within large organizations based on individual contributors.

## [Understanding Encryption at Rest: Key Threat Models and Best Practices](https://scottarc.blog/2024/06/02/encryption-at-rest-whose-threat-model-is-it-anyway/)

- The blog post "Encryption At Rest: Whose Threat Model Is It Anyway?" addresses common misunderstandings about encrypting data at rest in web and cloud applications, emphasizing the importance of proper implementation.
- It advocates for client-side encryption and highlights the role of key management systems (KMS) and AEAD constructions like AES-GCM and XChaCha20-Poly1305 to enhance security.
- The post underscores the need for developers to consult cryptography experts, improve their threat modeling skills, and stay informed about security vulnerabilities and mitigation strategies.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40573211)

- The discussion underscores the importance of understanding threat models in cloud services, particularly internal threats and risks posed by cloud provider personnel.
- It highlights the role of Cloud Key Management Services (KMS) in securely managing encryption keys and the limitations of encryption at rest, which does not protect against online attackers or internal threats.
- The conversation critiques "security theater" and stresses the need for robust cryptographic methods, secure key management, and a layered security strategy beyond just encryption.

## [Ground-Based Telescope Captures Stunning High-Resolution Images of Jupiter's Volcanic Moon Io](https://phys.org/news/2024-05-glimpses-volcanic-world-telescope-images.html)

- New high-resolution images of Jupiter's moon Io, captured by the Large Binocular Telescope (LBT) in Arizona, reveal surface features as small as 50 miles across, comparable to spacecraft imagery.
- The SHARK-VIS instrument and adaptive optics enabled these detailed observations, showing a major resurfacing event around the volcano Pele, highlighting Io's intense volcanic activity driven by tidal heating.
- Published in _Geophysical Research Letters_, these findings enhance understanding of volcanic processes on Io and other solar system bodies, thanks to the unprecedented sharpness provided by the SHARK-VIS instrument, developed by the Italian National Institute for Astrophysics.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40569949)

- The comparison highlights that while ground-based telescopes like the Large Binocular Telescope (LBT) are cost-effective and provide consistent data, they cannot match the resolution of space-based instruments.
- Enhanced by adaptive optics, ground-based telescopes can still achieve impressive results, but advanced imaging techniques like adaptive optics and lucky imaging are crucial for mitigating atmospheric interference.
- The discussion also covers the superior quality of scientific CMOS sensors over consumer camera sensors and debates the potential and limitations of AI in enhancing astronomical images, with concerns about the scientific validity of AI-generated images.

## [Germany's Oldest Minecraft Server Shuts Down, Open Sources Entire System](https://github.com/muxcraftserver/MuxSystem)

- MuxSystem Das originale MuxCraft System, v10, is a comprehensive plugin suite for Minecraft servers, offering a wide range of features to enhance gameplay and server management.
- Key features include automated shops, mining and trading systems, base management with anti-griefing, anti-lag measures, bot detection, casino games, event automation, and extensive admin tools.
- The system supports multi-server setups using a shared MySQL database and provides detailed setup instructions for IntelliJ IDEA, making it a robust solution for server administrators.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40566533)

- MuxCraft, the oldest and largest German Minecraft server, has shut down and open-sourced its assets on GitHub, sparking discussions about other long-standing Minecraft servers.
- The open-sourced assets include maps, schematics, server plugins, and more, available on GitHub and Archive.org.
- Users are reminiscing about their experiences with Minecraft, discussing the impact of the game on their lives and careers, and criticizing pay-to-win and gambling mechanics in servers.

## [Microsoft Blocks Workaround for Creating Local Accounts in Windows 11](https://www.pcworld.com/article/2354686/microsoft-blocks-windows-11-workaround-local-accounts.html)

- Microsoft has blocked a popular workaround that allowed Windows 11 users to create local accounts without a Microsoft account, leading to a continuous loop requiring a valid Microsoft account.
- An alternative method using the command "OOBE\BYPASSNRO" during setup still exists but may not be a long-term solution.
- This move aligns with Microsoft's push for users to switch to Windows 11 and use Microsoft accounts, raising concerns over user control and privacy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40572289)

- Microsoft's requirement for Microsoft accounts during Windows 11 setup has frustrated users who prefer local accounts for privacy and control.
- This frustration has led some users to consider alternative operating systems like Linux or macOS, despite their own challenges with hardware compatibility, gaming, and user-friendliness.
- Discussions emphasize the trade-offs between Windows' ease of use and Linux's customization and privacy benefits, and critique Microsoft's profit-driven strategies and mandatory online accounts.

## [Sam Altman's Financial Ties to OpenAI Spark Ethical Concerns](http://oftheclock.com/sam-altman-lately)

- Sam Altman, former head of YCombinator, faces scrutiny over potential conflicts of interest due to investments in companies benefiting from OpenAI's success.
- Despite claiming a modest salary and no direct ownership in OpenAI, Altman has gained significant wealth through investments in startups like Helion and Reddit, which have ties to OpenAI.
- Concerns about transparency and ethical conflicts have been raised, especially after Altman's ousting and reinstatement by OpenAI's board, questioning his commitment to prioritizing safe AI development over personal gain.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40566605)

- The discussion focuses on Sam Altman, CEO of OpenAI, and the perceived inconsistencies between his public image and business practices.
- Critics argue that Altman's involvement in related startups and significant personal wealth contradict his claims of avoiding financial influence on AI development, raising potential conflicts of interest.
- The debate touches on broader ethical issues in the tech industry, such as transparency, conflicts of interest, and the ethical implications of AI advancements, highlighting the complexity of evaluating influential tech leaders.

## [New Theory Proposes Time as an Illusion from Quantum Entanglement](https://bgr.com/science/new-theory-suggests-time-is-an-illusion-created-by-quantum-entanglement/)

- Alessandro Coppo and colleagues propose that time may be an illusion created by quantum entanglement, challenging the traditional view of time as a fundamental aspect of physical reality.
- The theory suggests that time appears to progress because objects are entangled with clocks, making the universe seem static to an external observer.
- Published in Physical Review A, this theory requires further exploration and testing to validate its claims.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40567676)

- A recent paper revisits the Page-Wooters mechanism, suggesting time is an illusion created by quantum entanglement, aiming to connect this concept to classical understanding and discussing metaphysical implications like free will and the nature of the universe.
- The study explores various perspectives on whether time is fundamental or emergent, referencing notable works and discussing entropy, causality, and the philosophical idea of "Eternal Recurrence."
- The paper introduces a model to understand time in quantum mechanics, showing how quantum time transitions to classical time when the clock system becomes macroscopic, with implications for quantum gravity.

## [AMD Unveils 192-Core EPYC "Turin" Processors and New Radeon Pro W7900 GPU](https://www.anandtech.com/show/21425/intel-lunar-lake-architecture-deep-dive-lion-cove-xe2-and-npu4)

- AMD announced Zen 5-based EPYC "Turin" processors with up to 192 cores, set for release in the second half of 2024, and introduced the Radeon Pro W7900 GPU for AI inference.
- TSMC is advancing its 3D stacked SoIC packaging, aiming for a 3μm pitch by 2027, with 2nm mass production on track for 2025, and plans to expand CoWoS capacity by 60% annually through 2026.
- MSI teased the Z790 Project Zero Plus motherboard with CAMM2 memory support, and Lenovo unveiled new notebooks powered by Qualcomm Snapdragon X Elite.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40570356)

- Intel's new Lunar Lake architecture introduces a shift from "sea of fubs" to "sea of cells" in P-core design, aiming to enhance efficiency and secure hardware for democratic resilience.
- Lunar Lake CPUs will use TSMC's 3 nm process for an earlier launch, while low-end Arrow Lake CPUs will use Intel's 20A process, reflecting Intel's reliance on TSMC due to past manufacturing issues.
- The discussion highlights the trade-offs in chip design, including the impact of on-package memory on upgradability, the debate over HyperThreading, and the importance of shielding and process nodes in CPU performance.

## [Psychedelics Challenge the Validity of Traditional Randomized Controlled Trials](https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2024/06/psychedelics-mdma-ptsd-fda-placebo/678588/)

- The article highlights the difficulty of maintaining the "blinding" process in clinical trials for psychedelics like MDMA, which is essential to avoid bias in randomized controlled trials (RCTs).
- Due to the noticeable effects of psychedelics, blinding is nearly impossible, raising concerns about the validity of positive trial results and suggesting that RCTs may not be suitable for these studies.
- The FDA's upcoming decision on MDMA-assisted therapy for PTSD could set a precedent for future psychedelic treatments, despite concerns about trial design and the influence of participants' expectations on outcomes.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40568515)

- Psychedelics, previously banned, are now being researched for their potential to treat personal traumas and provide insights into brain function and mental health, challenging traditional reliance on randomized controlled trials (RCTs).
- The text explores DMT's impact on the brain, its interaction with serotonin receptors, and the vivid visual distortions it induces, debating whether these experiences are brain-generated or involve external entities.
- The discussion critiques the overemphasis on RCTs for mental health conditions, highlights the therapeutic benefits and risks of psychedelics, and emphasizes the need for scientific evidence and context-sensitive approaches.

## [AI in Science: Tool for Progress, Not an Infallible Oracle, Experts Urge](https://www.aisnakeoil.com/p/scientists-should-use-ai-as-a-tool)

- Arvind Narayanan and Sayash Kapoor argue that AI should be used as a tool, not an infallible oracle, in scientific research, critiquing the hype that leads to flawed studies.
- They highlight issues like "leakage" in machine learning, poor reproducibility, and the failure to share data and code, exacerbated by the publish-or-perish culture and overoptimism.
- The authors call for better research practices, data sharing, and a cultural shift towards careful and reproducible science, suggesting reallocating some AI funding to improve training and quality control.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40568026)

- The discussion critiques the overreliance on AI in scientific fields, emphasizing risks like data leakage and the tendency to trust AI over expert opinions.
- It calls for a balanced approach that values expert knowledge and critical thinking, highlighting the need for genuine expertise in AI safety.
- Concerns are raised about AI's limitations in generating reliable content and its potential misuse, advocating for human oversight and proper training to mitigate errors.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Exposing ISP Vulnerabilities: A Personal Journey from Hacked Modem to Major Security Flaw" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Exposing%20ISP%20Vulnerabilities%3A%20A%20Personal%20Journey%20from%20Hacked%20Modem%20to%20Major%20Security%20Flaw&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20June%204%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
