---
slug: '/2024/06/05'
---

# 2024-06-05

## [Why Synthetic Keys Are Superior to Natural Keys in Database Design](https://blog.ploeh.dk/2024/06/03/youll-regret-using-natural-keys/)

- Mark Seemann's blog post argues for using synthetic keys over natural keys in database design, citing reliability and data integrity.
- He uses a personal anecdote about a car chassis number error to highlight issues with natural keys, such as data-entry errors and ensuring uniqueness.
- Reader comments provide additional perspectives, discussing the role of natural keys in logical data modeling and challenges with ORM (Object-Relational Mapping) libraries.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40580549)

- The discussion critiques natural keys in databases, recommending unique, human-readable IDs generated by JavaScript/TypeScript functions with a time component to reduce fragmentation.
- It advises using 64-bit auto-incremented primary keys for internal operations to boost performance and minimize index bloat, while random string IDs enhance security for public data.
- The conversation underscores the trade-offs between natural and synthetic keys, favoring surrogate keys for their stability, consistent references, and enhanced data integrity.

## [Animated Guide to Fourier Series: From Circles to Epicycles](https://www.andreinc.net/2024/04/24/from-the-circle-to-epicycles)

- The article "From the Circle to Epicycles (Part 1)" introduces Fourier Series, explaining fundamental concepts like trigonometric functions, Euler’s identity, and sinusoids using animations for better understanding.
- It covers the unit circle, the significance of π, and the properties of sinusoids and epicycles, leading to the introduction of Fourier Series and their applications in approximating complex waveforms.
- The article also discusses the Fourier Series decomposition of various waveforms, including square, triangle, and reverse-sawtooth waves, and introduces a visualization tool called "Fourier Series Machinery" to illustrate these concepts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40578705)

- The discussion contrasts visual learning tools, such as animations, with algebraic and matrix-based explanations for understanding Fourier series and transforms.
- Users highlight resources like 3Blue1Brown's YouTube videos and tools like Manim and p5.js, emphasizing the importance of solid math equations and proofs for practical applications.
- There is a debate on using degrees versus radians, with a preference for radians in theoretical contexts, underscoring the limitations of traditional education and the value of alternative online content.

## [Journalist Shares Humorous and Bizarre Texts from iPhone Thieves](https://gothamist.com/news/things-the-guys-who-stole-my-phone-have-texted-me-to-try-to-get-me-to-unlock-it)

- Veronica de Souza, a journalist, had her iPhone stolen and subsequently received scam texts from the thieves trying to unlock the phone.
- The scam messages included fake Apple Pay alerts and threats to auction her personal information on the black market.
- De Souza shared her experience to highlight the bizarre and often comical nature of these scams, despite their serious intent.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40578460)

- A Gothamist user received texts from thieves attempting to unlock their stolen phone, leading to a discussion on using messages about the Tiananmen Square massacre to trigger Chinese censorship as a deterrent.
- The conversation raised concerns about the risks to recipients' families in China, WeChat's societal role, and Apple's device security and repair policies, including the integration of parts with the motherboard to deter theft.
- Despite Apple's anti-theft measures, iPhone theft remains prevalent, with stolen phones often stripped for parts, sparking debates on repairability, environmental impact, and the effectiveness of security features like "Find My iPhone." Law enforcement's indifference and the need for better legal measures and user education were also discussed.

## [Israel Used Fake Accounts to Influence US Lawmakers on Gaza War](https://www.haaretz.com/israel-news/security-aviation/2024-06-05/ty-article-magazine/.premium/israel-secretly-targeted-american-lawmakers-with-gaza-war-influence-campaign/0000018f-e7c8-d11f-a5cf-e7cb62af0000)

- Israel's Diaspora Affairs Ministry conducted a covert influence campaign aimed at Black lawmakers and young progressives in the U.S. and Canada to sway public opinion on the Gaza war.
- The campaign, carried out by a political firm, utilized fake accounts and websites to disseminate pro-Israel and Islamophobic content.
- This operation was initially reported by Haaretz in March.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40584135)

- The discussion focuses on Israel's alleged use of fake social media accounts to influence U.S. lawmakers, raising concerns about transparency, ethical issues, and potential backlash.
- OpenAI's halt of covert influence campaigns with ChatGPT sparks debates on AI's role in deception and internet warfare, highlighting the historical context of propaganda and the evolution of espionage through social media.
- The conversation critiques media manipulation, particularly in the Israel-Palestine conflict, and the influence of lobbying groups like AIPAC, while addressing broader implications for free speech and political discourse.

## [First Vulkan 1.3 Driver for Apple's M1 Achieves 98.3% Conformance](https://rosenzweig.io/blog/vk13-on-the-m1-in-1-month.html)

- The "Honeykrisp" driver is the first Vulkan 1.3 conformant implementation for Apple's M1 hardware, developed without portability waivers and based on Faith Ekstrand's NVK driver for NVIDIA GPUs.
- The project achieved significant milestones, including a 99.6% pass rate for Vulkan 1.1 and 98.3% for Vulkan 1.3, and integrated Vulkan renderers for SuperTuxKart and Zink.
- Future goals include supporting Direct3D through DXVK and vkd3d-proton for Windows games on Asahi Linux, while currently offering conformant OpenGL 4.6 drivers for Linux games.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40585842)

- Alyssa Rosenzweig developed a Vulkan 1.3 driver for Apple's M1 chip in just one month, sparking discussions on Hacker News about gaming on ARM architecture and macOS.
- The debate critiques Apple's preference for Metal over Vulkan, which limits native game availability on macOS compared to Windows and Linux, and highlights the complexities of supporting multiple graphics APIs.
- Users express frustration with Apple's Game Porting Toolkit and high storage requirements for game updates, emphasizing the need for better gaming support and broader API compatibility to attract AAA games to macOS.

## [Microsoft's CoPilot+ and Privacy Concerns Spark User Backlash and Regulatory Scrutiny](https://www.antipope.org/charlie/blog-static/2024/06/is-microsoft-trying-to-commit-.html)

- Charles Stross critiques Microsoft's introduction of CoPilot+, an AI-based add-on for Windows, comparing it to the unpopular Clippy but with more advanced, flawed AI.
- Stross raises privacy concerns about Microsoft's new "Recall" feature in Windows 11, which stores user activity in an unencrypted database, posing risks for sensitive data and sparking controversy and regulatory scrutiny.
- The blog discusses broader implications for privacy, security, and the tech industry's push for hardware and OS upgrades, with some users considering alternatives like Linux.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40585212)

- Microsoft's new "Recall" feature, which uses on-device OCR (Optical Character Recognition) and a searchable SQLite database, has sparked debates on whether it qualifies as AI and raised privacy and security concerns.
- The discussion critiques Microsoft's broader strategy, including its focus on cloud services like Azure, the declining relevance of Windows, and the company's handling of data privacy and security.
- Broader themes include the inefficiencies of large bureaucracies, the importance of privacy, and the ethical considerations of AI and data handling, emphasizing the need for user awareness of AI's strengths and weaknesses.

## [Boeing Starliner Successfully Launches First Crewed Mission to ISS](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/live/world-us-canada-69094213)

- The Boeing Starliner successfully launched its first crewed mission, carrying NASA astronauts Butch Wilmore and Suni Williams to the International Space Station (ISS).
- The spacecraft is scheduled to dock at the ISS on 6 June at 12:15 ET, marking a significant milestone after years of engineering challenges.
- Astronauts Wilmore and Williams will stay at the ISS for about a week, expressing gratitude and enthusiasm for the mission.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40585728)

- Boeing's Starliner successfully launched its first crewed mission, marking a significant milestone in U.S. space exploration.
- The discussion includes the role of competition in space access, the importance of Launch Escape Systems (LES) for safety, and the impact of private funding on space technology.
- The conversation contrasts Boeing's Starliner with SpaceX's Crew Dragon, noting Boeing's delays and higher costs, while praising SpaceX's iterative, failure-tolerant approach for accelerating innovation.

## [State-of-the-Art LLMs Fail Simple Common-Sense Tasks, Study Reveals](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.02061)

- The paper "Alice in Wonderland: Simple Tasks Showing Complete Reasoning Breakdown in State-Of-the-Art Large Language Models" by Marianna Nezhurina et al. reveals significant reasoning failures in advanced Large Language Models (LLMs).
- Despite high performance claims, these models fail on simple common-sense tasks, often giving overconfident and nonsensical explanations for incorrect answers.
- Standard interventions like enhanced prompting and multi-step re-evaluation do not fix these issues, prompting a call for new benchmarks to better detect reasoning deficits in LLMs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40585039)

- The paper critiques current language models (LLMs) for simulating reasoning without genuine internal monologues or iterative thought processes, lacking the experiential depth of human reasoning.
- It suggests improvements through integration with logic programming and structured computational methods, highlighting LLMs' limitations in solving math equations and logic puzzles.
- The discussion emphasizes the need for robust benchmarks and extensive testing to better assess AI's reasoning capabilities and manage public expectations, noting the importance of context in prompts and the challenges in solving logical riddles and family tree problems.

## [Entropy: CLI Tool for Detecting Potential Secrets in Codebases](https://github.com/EwenQuim/entropy)

- Entropy is a Command Line Interface (CLI) tool that scans codebases for high entropy lines, which often indicate the presence of secrets.
- It can be installed using Go, Docker, and soon via Homebrew, offering flexibility in setup.
- The developer also has other notable projects: Fuego, a Go framework for generating OpenAPI documentation, and Renpy-Graphviz, a tool for visualizing Ren'Py game engine screens and labels.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40578060)

- The Hacker News discussion focuses on entropy in detecting secrets in codebases and password security, exploring methods like compression algorithms, language models, and pre-computed dictionaries.
- Tools such as trufflehog, detect-secrets, and semgrep secrets are mentioned, with alternatives like PyWhat and Nosey Parker, highlighting the debate on the effectiveness and limitations of entropy measurements.
- The conversation emphasizes the importance of layered security, automated credential rotation, and managing software entropy, while also addressing the security risks of using random tools and the need for reliable sources.

## [Apple's WWDC 2024 to Highlight AI, Unveil iOS 18 and visionOS 2](https://9to5mac.com/2024/06/04/bartender-acquired-unknown-developer/)

- Apple's WWDC 2024 will highlight advancements in Artificial Intelligence (AI), showcasing the latest innovations in this field.
- The event will feature the release of iOS 18, the next iteration of Apple's mobile operating system.
- Additionally, visionOS 2, an update to Apple's augmented reality (AR) operating system, will be introduced.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40584606)

- The acquisition of the Mac app "Bartender" by an unknown developer has led to user concerns about its future, security, and new permissions required.
- Users praised BetterTouchTool (BTT) as an alternative for managing menu bar icons and discussed the lack of built-in macOS features, especially with the new MacBook notch design.
- The conversation emphasized the benefits of open-source software like Dozer and suggested alternatives to Bartender, such as Ice and iBar, highlighting the importance of transparency and security in software development.

## [GitHub Accelerates iOS App Development with Apple Silicon Runners](https://github.blog/2024-06-03-arm64-on-github-actions-powering-faster-more-efficient-build-systems/)

- GitHub has enhanced the speed of building, testing, and deploying their iOS app by using macOS and Apple Silicon runners for GitHub Actions.
- This improvement has notably reduced the testing time for their iOS app.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40581545)

- GitHub Actions has added Arm64 support, but it is not available on free plans, highlighting a cost-effective yet slower alternative to x64 CPUs.
- Users are comparing GitHub's use of third-party vendors for image building, with discussions on Azure and AWS Graviton processors, and exploring alternatives like WarpBuild for faster and cheaper builds.
- Self-hosted CI/CD solutions using mini PCs are noted for significant cost savings despite requiring maintenance, with ongoing discussions about the trade-offs between cost, performance, and management in CI/CD infrastructure.

## [macOS Bartender App Sold Quietly, Sparking User Concerns Over Transparency](https://www.macrumors.com/2024/06/04/bartender-mac-app-new-owner/)

- The popular Mac app Bartender was sold two months ago without prior notification to customers, raising transparency concerns.
- MacUpdater flagged potential safety issues due to the lack of communication, prompting the new owners to confirm the acquisition on Reddit.
- Users are worried about the new owners' intentions and the overall transparency, as details about the sale and certificate change were not initially provided.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40579660)

- Users on macrumors.com are concerned about the macOS app Bartender auto-updating under a new, unidentified owner, leading them to consider alternatives like HiddenBar, Dozer, and Ice, despite their functionality issues.
- The discussion highlights frustrations with macOS requiring third-party tools for better desktop management and the potential risks associated with software updates and ownership changes.
- Concerns about potential malware in Bartender's future updates prompt recommendations for disabling auto-updates or using network-blocking tools, with users expressing a desire for native macOS features to manage menu bar icons and customizable settings.

## [Debian 13 Adopts RAM-Based tmpfs for /tmp, Sparking Community Debate](https://lwn.net/SubscriberLink/975565/bcce68a68d82d63a/)

- Debian 13 ("Trixie") will use a RAM-based tmpfs for the /tmp directory and implement automatic cleanup of temporary files in /tmp and /var/tmp, similar to practices in Arch Linux and Fedora.
- This change has sparked debate about its impact on memory management, system performance, and the handling of long-running job data, especially on older systems with limited RAM.
- Users can customize or override these settings during installation, and the discussion highlights the importance of swap space, security, and robust error handling.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40578414)

- The LWN.net discussion examines the risks and inefficiencies of using RAM-backed `/tmp` in Debian, especially during unexpected reboots, and suggests disk-backed `/var/tmp` as an alternative for persistent storage.
- It highlights the benefits of systemd-tmpfiles for managing temporary files and the complexities of filesystem layouts, including debates over merging `/var/tmp` and `/var/cache`.
- The conversation also covers containerization tools like Snapcraft and Flatpak, the impact of tmpfs on system performance, SSD wear, and memory management, with mixed opinions on swap and zswap effectiveness.

## [Study Reveals Agile Software Projects Have 268% Higher Failure Rates Than Non-Agile](https://www.theregister.com/2024/06/05/agile_failure_rates/)

- A study by consultancy Engprax found that Agile software projects are 268% more likely to fail compared to non-Agile projects.
- The research, involving 600 software engineers from the UK and US, highlighted that projects with clear, documented requirements before development are 97% more likely to succeed.
- The study suggests that robust requirements engineering and psychological safety for problem-solving are crucial for project success, advocating for a balanced approach between Agile and traditional methodologies like Waterfall.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40584901)

- A study claiming Agile software projects have a 268% higher failure rate is criticized for bias, lack of data transparency, and flawed definitions.
- Critics argue that Agile is often mischaracterized and misapplied, leading to issues like technical debt, expert burnout, and project failures, emphasizing the importance of proper implementation, flexibility, and adaptation.
- The debate contrasts Agile with Waterfall methodologies, noting Agile's suitability for dynamic environments and iterative development, while Waterfall is better for projects with fixed requirements, highlighting the need for balancing Agile principles with practical requirements engineering and design.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Why Synthetic Keys Are Superior to Natural Keys in Database Design" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Why%20Synthetic%20Keys%20Are%20Superior%20to%20Natural%20Keys%20in%20Database%20Design&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20June%205%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
