---
slug: '/2024/06/06'
---

# 2024-06-06

## [Microsoft AI Scandal Highlights Need for Holistic Online Privacy Approach](https://spectrum.ieee.org/online-privacy)

- Barath Raghavan and Bruce Schneier draw parallels between online privacy and fishing, emphasizing the ecosystem-wide impact of privacy breaches.
- They discuss a Microsoft spying controversy to highlight the need for a holistic approach to data protection.
- The authors advocate for considering the broader digital environment when addressing online privacy issues.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40592789)

- The article critiques the Microsoft AI spying scandal, calling for updated privacy standards and highlighting the economic and societal impacts of diminishing regulatory trust.
- It contrasts the focus on TikTok's privacy issues with similar concerns in American companies, highlighting bipartisan misuse of private data in political campaigns.
- The text emphasizes the urgent need for stronger privacy regulations, criticizing big tech companies for data misuse and surveillance, and calls for established privacy standards.

## [SpaceX's Super Heavy Successfully Lands in Gulf of Mexico](https://twitter.com/SpaceX/status/1798701489097183286)

- SpaceX reported that the Super Heavy rocket has successfully landed in the Gulf of Mexico on June 6, 2024.
- This marks a significant milestone for SpaceX, showcasing their ability to recover and reuse their largest rocket booster.
- The successful landing is expected to advance SpaceX's goals for cost-effective space travel and further missions to Mars.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40596883)

- SpaceX's recent technological advancements include the successful splashdown of Super Heavy in the Gulf of Mexico and the anticipation of a new launch facility in central Florida.
- The discussion highlights the reliability of Starlink internet during space re-entry, accurate rocket landings, and the resilience of the Starship during reentry, despite some damage.
- The conversation covers the economic feasibility of deploying satellites, the importance of large launch vehicles, and future markets like space tourism and zero-gravity manufacturing.

## [From OpenGL to Vulkan: Building a Custom Game Engine in Three Months](https://edw.is/learning-vulkan/)

- The author documents a three-month journey of learning Vulkan and developing a small game engine, despite having no prior Vulkan experience but some background in OpenGL and game engines.
- The engine, suitable for smaller level-based games, includes two demos and is available on GitHub, with practical advice for beginners transitioning from OpenGL to Vulkan.
- The article covers technical aspects like shaders, synchronization, and UI integration, and discusses the advantages of Vulkan for small 3D desktop games, while also reflecting on the uncertain future of OpenGL and the potential of WebGPU.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40595741)

- The article explores the author's experience in learning Vulkan and developing a game engine, offering practical programming advice and emphasizing the YAGNI (You Aren't Gonna Need It) principle.
- It highlights the challenges of using Rust with Vulkan, WGPU, and Rend3, including performance, concurrency, and community support issues.
- The discussion covers the complexities of Vulkan tutorials, compares different graphics APIs like OpenGL and Direct3D, and examines the benefits of higher-level abstractions and tools, noting Vulkan's steep learning curve but advanced features.

## [U.S. Regulators Launch Antitrust Probes into Microsoft, OpenAI, and Nvidia](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/05/technology/nvidia-microsoft-openai-antitrust-doj-ftc.html)

- Federal regulators, including the Justice Department and the FTC, have divided responsibilities for antitrust investigations into major AI industry players: Microsoft, OpenAI, and Nvidia.
- The FTC will focus on Microsoft and OpenAI, while the Justice Department will investigate Nvidia, signaling increased regulatory scrutiny of AI technologies.
- These investigations aim to address potential antitrust violations and consumer harm, reflecting a growing effort in the U.S. to oversee the rapidly advancing AI industry.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40593275)

- The U.S. has launched antitrust investigations into Nvidia, Microsoft, and OpenAI, focusing on potential anti-competitive practices and corporate ownership structures.
- Nvidia is under scrutiny for its dominance in chip distribution, while Microsoft is questioned over its stake in OpenAI and the acquisition of Inflection AI's staff.
- The investigations highlight the complexities of antitrust laws, the need for updates, and the broader implications for tech industry regulations and consumer protection.

## [Discovery of Balon Protein Reveals Key Mechanism for Cellular Dormancy and Survival](https://www.quantamagazine.org/most-life-on-earth-is-dormant-after-pulling-an-emergency-brake-20240605/)

- Researchers have identified a protein named Balon that can rapidly halt and restart protein production in cells, aiding in dormancy.
- Balon is found in Arctic permafrost bacteria and other organisms, interrupting ribosomes mid-function to allow quick transitions into and out of dormancy.
- This protein is present in over 20% of bacterial genomes, highlighting its potential role in species' resilience to climate change and offering new insights into cellular adaptation and survival strategies.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40592575)

- Karla Helena-Bueno's accidental discovery of a hibernation factor in an Arctic bacterium underscores the role of serendipity in scientific breakthroughs, contrasting human intuition with machine learning's systematic approach.
- The discussion explores the potential of machine learning to enhance innovation, the feasibility of human hibernation and cryonics, and the evolutionary adaptations of Inuit populations.
- The text critiques modern life's complexities and societal pressures, emphasizing the importance of human connections, societal engagement, and a sense of purpose for true happiness over artificial solutions.

## [Mitsubishi's TOKUFASTbot Sets New Record by Solving Rubik's Cube in 0.305 Seconds](https://soranews24.com/2024/05/28/mitsubishi-develops-robot-that-solves-rubiks-cube-style-puzzle-in-0-305-seconds%e3%80%90video%e3%80%91/)

- Mitsubishi Electric's TOKUFASTbot robot has set a new Guinness World Record by solving a Rubik’s Cube-style puzzle in 0.305 seconds, surpassing the previous record of 0.38 seconds.
- The robot utilizes a servo motor for rapid 90-degree turns and an AI color-identifying algorithm for quick solutions, demonstrating advanced robotics and AI integration.
- The achievement has attracted significant online attention, with many impressed by the robot's speed and the durability of the cube, further highlighted by comparison videos released by Mitsubishi.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40593674)

- A Mitsubishi robot set a record by solving a Rubik's Cube in 0.305 seconds, showcasing the advanced speed and processing power of modern robotics.
- This achievement has sparked discussions about the future implications of robots in warfare, including their potential to change strategic calculations and dominate battlefields.
- The conversation also explores the broader applications of such technology in marketing and industry, as well as the importance of personal fulfillment in human activities despite machine superiority.

## [Investigating the Alignment of Seven Saint Michael Cathedrals: Myth or Reality?](https://geospatial.netlify.app/posts/gds-2024-04-20-cathedrals/)

- The research project investigates the claim that seven famous cathedrals dedicated to Saint Michael are perfectly aligned on a straight line.
- Methodology includes collecting geographical data, using Python libraries for geodesic calculations, and visualizing data with KeplerGl.
- Results show the cathedrals are not aligned in spherical geometry but appear aligned on a Mercator projection, with a root mean squared error of 167.0303 Km.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40595499)

- The investigation examines whether seven religious sites dedicated to St. Michael are aligned in a straight line, with opinions divided between extraordinary alignment and coincidence.
- The discussion includes the historical and miraculous origins of these monasteries and sanctuaries, the challenges of map projections, and the role of cultural symbolism.
- The conversation concludes with skepticism about a secretive, long-term conspiracy and emphasizes the importance of critical scrutiny of data and methods used in such theories.

## [Subway-Style Map of Roman Roads from 125 AD Combines History and Creativity](https://sashamaps.net/docs/maps/roman-roads-original/)

- A subway-style diagram of major Roman roads from around 125 AD has been created, incorporating extensive research from sources like Stanford’s ORBIS model and the Antonine Itinerary.
- The map includes both historically accurate and creatively named roads, with travel times varying by method and season, highlighting that sea travel was faster and cheaper.
- An updated version corrected errors, added significant cities and roads, and included changes based on feedback; it is also available in Chinese, translated by Stone Chen.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40597216)

- Users are discussing a map of Roman roads from sashamaps.net, exploring its features, accessibility, and potential as wall art.
- The conversation includes historical anecdotes, comparisons of Roman roads to modern infrastructure, and debates on their durability and construction methods.
- There is a humorous comparison of ancient Roman roads to a future hyperloop map, highlighting the advanced organization of the Roman Empire.

## [85% Support Global Ban on Single-Use Plastics](https://www.worldwildlife.org/press-releases/85-of-people-want-global-ban-on-single-use-plastics)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40588977)

- A World Wildlife Fund survey shows 85% global support for banning single-use plastics, but critics question its reliability due to low response rates and potential biases.
- The debate highlights the complexity of defining "unnecessary" plastics, economic trade-offs, and the challenges in creating unbiased surveys, with critics noting that poorer regions prioritize practical needs over environmental concerns.
- The discussion includes the effectiveness of plastic bans versus improved waste management, the environmental impact of reusable versus disposable containers, and the practicality of alternatives like reusable bags and containers, advocating for thorough legislative investigation.

## [FBI Raids Atlanta Landlord in Expanding Rental Price Fixing Probe](https://www.ajc.com/news/atlanta-news/fbi-raids-atlanta-corporate-landlord-with-ties-to-realpage/PT65C57YUFF2JGB7TRVRC7IFLE/)

- The federal government’s antitrust investigation into rental market price fixing has intensified, with a recent FBI raid on Cortland Management in Atlanta.
- The probe focuses on Texas-based RealPage, whose rental pricing software is suspected of colluding with landlords to inflate rents, and has expanded to include criminal inquiries.
- This case, highlighting significant rent increases in Atlanta, has become a priority for President Biden, who aims to address corporate landlord practices in his reelection campaign.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40591582)

- The FBI raided an Atlanta corporate landlord as part of an investigation into potential rental market price fixing.
- The original article is not accessible, but discussions on Hacker News suggest that white-collar crime in the U.S. often goes unpunished if the perpetrators have significant financial resources and connections.
- This event has sparked interest due to the involvement of the FBI and the implications of price fixing in the rental market.

## [AeroSpace: i3-Inspired Tiling Window Manager for macOS Now in Public Beta](https://github.com/nikitabobko/AeroSpace)

- AeroSpace is a new tiling window manager for macOS, inspired by i3, and is currently in public beta.
- Key features include manual tiling based on a tree paradigm, plain text configuration, CLI (Command Line Interface) scriptability, and proper multi-monitor support without needing to disable SIP (System Integrity Protection).
- AeroSpace uses its own virtual workspaces instead of macOS Spaces, supports installation via Homebrew for auto-updates, and emphasizes keyboard-centric use and minimal GUI (Graphical User Interface).

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40596689)

- The discussion highlights AeroSpace, a tiling window manager (TWM) for macOS, praised for its window management and multi-monitor support but criticized for lacking the flexibility of i3/sway and requiring keyboard commands for layout adjustments.
- Unlike yabai, AeroSpace does not require disabling System Integrity Protection (SIP), making it more user-friendly, though users note issues with other tools like Yabai, AutoRaise, Hammerspoon, Rectangle, and Magnet.
- Users discuss the challenges of implementing i3-like functionality on macOS, the benefits of ultra-wide screens, and the complexities of macOS notarization, with some suggesting alternatives like tmux or native macOS features.

## [Adobe's Photoshop ToS Sparks Privacy Concerns Over Access to User Projects](https://nichegamer.com/photoshop-terms-of-service-grants-adobe-access-to-user-projects-for-content-moderation/)

- Adobe's new terms of service for Photoshop mandate user consent for Adobe to access active projects, sparking privacy concerns, especially for NDA-protected work.
- Sam Santala, founder of Songhorn Studios, brought attention to this issue on Twitter, reflecting broader industry trends.
- Similar practices are seen with Microsoft's AI product Recall, which scans user screens to enhance service quality.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40591860)

- Adobe's Photoshop Terms of Service permit the company to access user projects for content moderation, causing dissatisfaction, especially with cloud services like Lightroom that automatically manage local files.
- This has led users to seek alternatives such as Krita, Pixelmator, DxO PhotoLab, Affinity Photo, and Blackmagic's Fusion within Davinci Resolve, favoring perpetual licenses over subscriptions.
- Concerns include Adobe's data usage policies, AI training, privacy, and the need for transparency in data processing, highlighting broader issues of copyright, democracy, and human rights.

## [Advocating for Legal Protections Against AI Profiling Using Public Data](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s13347-023-00616-9)

- The article advocates for a unique legal right to protect individuals from AI profiling using publicly available data without their explicit informed consent, citing risks of social control, stigmatization, and increased exposure.
- It critiques the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) for lacking sufficient safeguards against AI profiling and highlights studies showing AI's high accuracy in identifying mental health issues from social media data.
- The article calls for revisions to legal frameworks like the GDPR to establish this right, emphasizing the importance of privacy, informed consent, and regulatory measures to balance the benefits and harms of AI profiling.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40597503)

- The discussion emphasizes the urgent need for updated privacy laws due to advancements in technology that enable widespread and affordable surveillance, such as smartphones and speed cameras.
- Ethical implications of surveillance technologies, including facial recognition, and the complexities of renter protections and credit scoring are explored, comparing China's social credit system to America's credit score system.
- Concerns about data privacy, AI profiling, and the effectiveness of current laws like GDPR are raised, with debates on enforcing privacy protections and the ethical issues surrounding AI-generated content.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Microsoft AI Scandal Highlights Need for Holistic Online Privacy Approach" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Microsoft%20AI%20Scandal%20Highlights%20Need%20for%20Holistic%20Online%20Privacy%20Approach&subheading=Thursday%2C%20June%206%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
