---
slug: '/2024/06/11'
---

# 2024-06-11

## [Apple Unveils Apple Intelligence with Advanced On-Device and Server AI Models](https://machinelearning.apple.com/research/introducing-apple-foundation-models)

- At the 2024 Worldwide Developers Conference, Apple introduced Apple Intelligence, a personal intelligence system integrated into iOS 18, iPadOS 18, and macOS Sequoia, featuring generative models for tasks like text refinement and image creation.
- Apple emphasizes responsible AI development, focusing on user empowerment, privacy, and efficient model performance, using on-device processing and Private Cloud Compute to protect user data.
- The system employs the AXLearn framework for efficient training, with models optimized for speed and efficiency, and includes specialized neural network modules called adapters for task-specific performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40639506)

- Apple's announcement of On-Device and Server Foundation Models has received mixed reactions, with critics accusing them of repackaging existing AI techniques and supporters praising their refinement and popularization of established technologies.
- The discussion highlights Apple's strategy of refining and popularizing existing technologies, such as with "Apple Silicon" and "AirPort," rather than focusing on groundbreaking research.
- Speculation suggests Apple might enter the server chip market with an AI chip, leveraging their silicon expertise, while debates continue over their high pricing, minimal RAM in base models, and tight ecosystem control.

## [Apple's Private Cloud Compute Enhances AI Privacy and Security for iOS and macOS](https://security.apple.com/blog/private-cloud-compute/)

- Apple's Private Cloud Compute (PCC) introduces advanced generative AI models to iPhone, iPad, and Mac, with a strong focus on security and privacy.
- PCC ensures user data remains private and inaccessible, even to Apple staff, by using end-to-end encryption, ephemeral processing, and anonymizing request metadata.
- Apple will make PCC's production software publicly available for security research, supporting independent verification and maintaining public trust.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40639606)

- The debate on AI data privacy in Apple's private cloud contrasts open-source, decentralized systems with Apple's robust privacy measures, including third-party audits and custom hardware.
- Critics question Apple's transparency and potential backdoors, despite acknowledging strong internal security from competitors like Google and OpenAI, and suggest non-profit alternatives like GrapheneOS for verifiable security.
- Concerns include Apple's data collection for ads, the need for strong encryption, minimal data logging, and the risks of government interference, highlighting the complexity of network infrastructure and the trade-offs between isolated machines and cloud-based systems.

## [Pioneering Computer Scientist and Transgender Activist Lynn Conway Passes Away at 85](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lynn_Conway)

- Lynn Conway (1938-2024) was a pioneering computer scientist and electrical engineer who significantly advanced modern processors and microchip design.
- Despite facing discrimination and being fired by IBM in 1968 for transitioning, she had a notable career at Xerox PARC, DARPA, and the University of Michigan, and co-authored the influential textbook "Introduction to VLSI Systems."
- Conway was also a prominent transgender rights advocate, receiving numerous awards, including an apology and the IBM Lifetime Achievement Award in 2020, leaving a lasting legacy in both technology and transgender rights.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40648470)

- Lynn Conway, a pioneering computer scientist and transgender activist, has passed away, leaving behind a legacy of inspiration and resilience.
- Despite being fired by IBM for her gender transition, Conway rebuilt her career and became a significant figure in VLSI (Very Large Scale Integration) design, co-authoring the influential textbook "Introduction to VLSI Systems" and teaching a groundbreaking VLSI Design Course.
- Her legacy is especially poignant during Pride Month, highlighting ongoing struggles against oppression and the lasting impact of her work and activism, despite facing transphobic backlash.

## [RP2040: Raspberry Pi's Cost-Effective, Versatile Microcontroller for Engineers](https://dgroshev.com/blog/rp2040/)

- The RP2040 is a versatile microcontroller by Raspberry Pi, designed for embedding in consumer electronics.
- Unlike other manufacturers, Raspberry Pi offers just one model, simplifying development and fostering a large support community.
- Priced at around 70 cents, it features two cores, 30 GPIO pins, ample internal RAM, and a unique PIO peripheral for efficient IO operations, making it a favorite among engineers for its balance of cost, functionality, and support.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40646061)

- A user switched from the RP2040 to the ESP32-S3 microcontroller due to issues with the PlatformIO tool, simpler module format, and better GPIO pin capabilities for capacitive touch.
- The RP2040 was praised for its affordability, excellent documentation, and unique Programmable I/O (PIO) feature, but criticized for high power consumption and lack of peripherals.
- The ESP32 was highlighted for its integrated Bluetooth and Wi-Fi, despite having inferior ADCs and facing performance issues with large projects.

## [POV-Ray Celebrates 30 Years with New Beta Release and Educational IDE Campaign](http://www.povray.org/)

- The Persistence of Vision Raytracer (POV-Ray) is a free, high-quality tool for creating 3D graphics, with customizable source code.
- Notable updates include the beta release of POV-Ray v3.8.0, a Kickstarter campaign for an educational IDE by DKBTrace creator David K. Buck, and the 30th anniversary of POV-Ray.
- The site has recovered from a server crash, restored its wiki and forums, and announced new features like POV-Ray export in the white_dune 3D editor.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40643207)

- A Hacker News user shared their 25-day experience learning ray tracing with POV-Ray, igniting nostalgic discussions about early computer graphics and programming on older systems like the 386 and 486 processors.
- Users reminisced about long rendering times, hardware upgrades, and using software like POV-Ray and VistaPro, as well as programming in languages like C and Turbo Pascal.
- The conversation also covered modern tools like Blender, the evolution of 3D rendering, and the impact of big tech and economic models on innovation and resource allocation, highlighting the enduring influence of POV-Ray and early internet communities.

## [Noam Chomsky Unable to Communicate or Walk After Medical Event](https://www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/books/news/noam-chomsky-health-update-tributes-b2559831.html)

- Noam Chomsky, a 95-year-old linguist and political activist, has suffered a severe health decline since a medical event in June last year, rendering him unable to communicate or walk.
- His former assistant, Bev Stohl, confirmed that Chomsky has not appeared in public since the incident and is unlikely to do so again.
- Tributes emphasize Chomsky's kindness, dedication to fighting injustice, and significant influence, with his absence notably felt in discussions about the Gaza conflict.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40641361)

- Noam Chomsky, despite losing his ability to speak, remains mentally sharp and actively engages with young audiences, maintaining his influence in political and cognitive science.
- He faces criticism for his views on geopolitical issues, including Russia's invasion of Ukraine and past interactions with Jeffrey Epstein, as well as his stances on American interventionism and historical events like the Cambodian genocide.
- The text contrasts Chomsky's theories on innate grammar with the functioning of large language models (LLMs) and discusses his controversial opinions on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, NATO, and US foreign policy, highlighting the polarized reactions he provokes.

## [Norway Unveils Europe's Largest Rare Earth Metals Deposit, Easing Reliance on China](https://www.cnbc.com/2024/06/11/norway-discovers-europes-largest-deposit-of-rare-earth-metals.html)

- Norway has discovered Europe's largest deposit of rare earth metals in the Fen Carbonatite Complex, containing 8.8 million metric tons of rare earth oxides.
- This find includes 1.5 million metric tons of magnet-related rare earths crucial for electric vehicles and wind turbines, potentially reducing Europe's reliance on China.
- The discovery is a milestone for Rare Earths Norway and aligns with Europe's goal to meet its rare earth demand domestically by 2030, with mining expected to start by then.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40646658)

- Norway has discovered Europe's largest rare earth metals deposit, leading to mixed reactions about resource distribution and management.
- The discussion emphasizes Norway's historical and geographical context, effective resource management, and the broader implications of rare earth mining, including environmental concerns and geopolitical dynamics with China and Russia.
- Misconceptions about rare earth elements are addressed, highlighting their abundance but the challenges associated with extraction.

## [Slop: The Rise of Low-Quality A.I.-Generated Content and Its Impact on Online Platforms](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/11/style/ai-search-slop.html)

- The term "slop" has emerged to describe low-quality, unwanted A.I.-generated content across various online platforms, including social media, art, books, and search results.
- The term gained traction after Google integrated its Gemini A.I. model into U.S. search results, leading to initial user dissatisfaction and missteps.
- Experts warn that such content discourages critical thinking by presenting information as definitive answers, and advocates believe having terms like "slop" is essential for societal discourse on modern A.I. usage.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40645983)

- The term "slop" refers to low-quality, often AI-generated content, reflecting concerns about AI's impact on content quality and societal well-being.
- Critics argue that AI exacerbates the issue by enabling mass production of low-quality content, driven by economic incentives and advertising profits.
- The discussion highlights the challenge of distinguishing between low-effort human content and AI-generated material, with concerns about the future of content creation and the potential for AI to manage both creation and summarization.

## [Corporate Influence Raises Concerns at Entomological Society Conference](https://usrtk.org/bees-neonics/entomological-society-america-corporate-partners/)

- At the 2023 Entomological Society of America (ESA) meeting, significant corporate sponsorship, especially from agrochemical companies like Corteva Agriscience, was evident.
- Despite discussions on critical topics like bee health and climate change, research on neonicotinoids—a pesticide linked to bee colony declines and produced by Corteva—was notably sparse, raising concerns about corporate influence on scientific discourse.
- Critics argue that corporate involvement may compromise the integrity of the ESA, although the organization defends its inclusivity and diversity of scientific perspectives.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40638386)

- A major conference experienced a decline in controversial pesticide research, igniting debates about the impact of corporate sponsorship in academia.
- Critics argue that corporate funding skews research priorities and suppresses less profitable studies, while supporters believe it fosters beneficial collaboration.
- The discussion underscores the tension between industry involvement and scientific integrity, advocating for increased federal science funding to mitigate corporate influence.

## [Daily Commitments: Boosting Productivity and Team Visibility](https://maxleiter.com/blog/ship-every-day)

- The author recommends making daily tangible contributions at work, which don't have to be major features or bug fixes.
- Benefits include a dopamine rush, increased visibility to your team, encouragement of incremental progress, and an impressive GitHub profile.
- Contributions can also include documentation or triage, helping to combat isolation in remote work and providing daily satisfaction.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40640927)

- The "ship something every day" approach in software development is critiqued for potentially lowering quality and promoting superficial productivity through rapid, unreflective iterations.
- Critics argue that focusing on metrics like commit streaks can be misleading, induce anxiety, and negatively impact software stability, suggesting that meaningful work often requires more time.
- The discussion advocates for a balanced approach to productivity, emphasizing quality over arbitrary metrics, consistent incremental progress, effective communication, and the value of internal documentation and creative projects for sustained motivation.

## [Mastering Clear Communication: Tips from Vicky Zhao's Effective Strategies](https://iandanielstewart.com/2024/06/09/engage-your-audience-by-getting-to-the-point-using-story-structure-and-forcing-specificity/)

- The article highlights communication strategies inspired by Vicky Zhao's video on clear articulation of ideas.
- Key techniques include starting with a clear main point, using a 3-line story structure, and being specific with set phrases and the Via Negativa method.
- These methods aim to improve writing, reading, thinking, and decision-making by ensuring communication is clear, engaging, and precise.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40639628)

- The discussion emphasizes effective audience engagement through concise communication and structured storytelling, contrasting different approaches like starting with the main point versus traditional story structures.
- It highlights the importance of clear presentations using frameworks such as STAR (Situation, Task, Action, Result) for clarity and quick decision-making.
- The conversation underscores the balance between brevity and clarity, the role of engaging presentation styles, and the effectiveness of storytelling techniques like the hero's journey, ultimately valuing genuine emotion and personal voice over rigid structures.

## [Why Gleam V1 is Winning Over Developers with Its Type-Safe BEAM Integration](https://christopher.engineering/en/blog/gleam-overview/)

- The article highlights Chris, a software engineer, who revisited Gleam, a type-safe language on the BEAM, after the release of Gleam V1 in March 2024 and was impressed by its static typing.
- Key features of Gleam include tagged unions, pattern matching, and a robust type system, with a compiler and CLI that simplify development, contrasting with JavaScript's complexity.
- Gleam's integration with the BEAM ecosystem and OTP for building fault-tolerant software, along with its ability to transpile to JavaScript, makes it appealing to JavaScript developers; the article also introduces Lustre, a Gleam web framework.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40643167)

- Gleam is a type-safe language designed for the BEAM virtual machine, known for its minimalistic design and productive features.
- Unlike Elixir, Gleam re-implements key primitives to align with its static type system, offering simplicity, labeled arguments, and integrated tooling.
- While Gleam's OTP (Open Telecom Platform) is less mature than Erlang's or Elixir's, it is evolving and appreciated for its ergonomic design and potential integration with projects like Vue.

## [New Framework Unveils How Large-Scale Order Emerges from Microscopic Interactions](https://www.quantamagazine.org/the-new-math-of-how-large-scale-order-emerges-20240610/)

- The article by Philip Ball discusses the concept of emergence, where large-scale patterns arise from numerous microscopic interactions, and the challenge of developing a unified scientific theory for it.
- Researchers, including Fernando Rosas, have proposed a new framework using computational mechanics to identify criteria for emergent structures, suggesting that complex systems self-organize into hierarchical levels independent of lower-level details.
- The study introduces the concept of informational closure, indicating that macro-level predictability and control are not enhanced by detailed microstate information, and explores its implications for understanding the universe's structure, causation, and the debate on free will.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40638764)

- The article introduces Crutchfield's Epsilon machine formalism, a new method for modeling state transitions in systems with non-finite memory, addressing the limitations of finite state machines.
- It recommends key resources on complex systems, including works by Melanie Mitchell, Crutchfield, and Cosma Shalizi, and books like "The Nature of Computation" by Stuart Kauffman and "Networks" by Mark Newman.
- The discussion covers the interplay between macro and micro processes, the concept of heterarchy, and the importance of interdisciplinary study rooted in information theory, referencing theories by Gregory Chaitin and the Solomonoff–Kolmogorov–Chaitin framework.

## [British Duo Arrested for SMS Phishing Using Homemade "Text Message Blaster"](https://www.theregister.com/2024/06/10/two_arrested_in_uk_over/)

- British police have arrested two individuals involved in an SMS-based phishing (smishing) campaign using a homemade "text message blaster" to send thousands of fraudulent texts.
- The suspects impersonated banks and official organizations to deceive recipients, with one identified suspect, Huayong Xu, charged and set to appear in court.
- The investigation, involving network operators, Ofcom, and the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC), highlights the importance of reporting suspicious messages to 7726.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40642801)

- Two British individuals were arrested for SMS phishing using a homemade cell tower built with Software-Defined Radio (SDR) and open-source software.
- The article discusses the ease of creating such systems and anti-spam measures by phone providers, including reporting suspicious texts to numbers like 7726 (SPAM).
- The conversation highlights the sophistication of spectrum monitoring in cities, especially in high-risk areas like central London, and the involvement of various authorities.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Apple Unveils Apple Intelligence with Advanced On-Device and Server AI Models" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Apple%20Unveils%20Apple%20Intelligence%20with%20Advanced%20On-Device%20and%20Server%20AI%20Models&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20June%2011%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
