---
slug: '/2024/06/14'
---

# 2024-06-14

## [Land value tax in online games and virtual worlds (2022)](https://progressandpoverty.substack.com/p/land-value-tax-in-online-games-and)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40676408)

- The text discusses the pros and cons of implementing a Land Value Tax (LVT) in online games and virtual worlds, suggesting it could lower land values but also benefit landowners if removed.
- It highlights the potential for LVT to shift taxes from land to labor, enterprise, and commerce, while warning of resistance from wealthy landowners and the difficulty of maintaining LVT progress.
- The text also touches on the broader implications of LVT, including its potential to replace all other taxes, the feasibility of such a system, and the importance of public awareness and strong policies to support its implementation.

## [U.S.-Saudi petrodollar pact ends after 50 years](https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/us-saudi-petrodollar-pact-ends-after-50-years)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40673567)

- The U.S.-Saudi petrodollar pact has ended after 50 years, but immediate changes in the oil business are not expected.
- The end of the pact may lead to a gradual shift towards de-dollarization, but this process will take time.
- The U.S. remains the world's largest energy producer, which could impact the geopolitical landscape and the relevance of the petrodollar.

## [I found a 55 year old bug in the first Lunar Lander game](https://martincmartin.com/2024/06/14/how-i-found-a-55-year-old-bug-in-the-first-lunar-lander-game/)

- In 1969, high school student Jim Storer created the first Lunar Landing game, which involved piloting a moon lander and managing fuel burn every 10 simulated seconds.
- A bug in the game, unnoticed for 55 years, involved a missing "divide by two" that caused incorrect landing detection; fixing this improves landing accuracy.
- The game used advanced numerical methods for its time, such as the Tsiolkovsky rocket equation and Taylor series expansion, making it a notable achievement in early game design.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40680218)

- A 55-year-old bug was discovered in the first Lunar Lander game, originally written by Jim Storer in high school during the 1960s.
- The game, written in the FOCAL programming language, required an impressive understanding of physics and numerical techniques, especially for a high school student at that time.
- The discovery highlights the historical significance and technical challenges of early computer games, as well as the evolution of coding practices and quality assurance over the decades.

## [Fungus breaks down ocean plastic](https://www.nioz.nl/en/news/fungus-breaks-down-ocean-plastic)

- Researchers from NIOZ and other institutions have discovered that the marine fungus Parengyodontium album can break down polyethylene plastic when exposed to UV sunlight.
- The fungus degrades polyethylene at a rate of about 0.05% per day, converting it into carbon dioxide, but only for plastic floating near the ocean's surface.
- This discovery, published in the journal Science of the Total Environment, highlights the potential for biological solutions to address plastic pollution, especially as plastic production is expected to triple by 2060.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40676239)

- A fungus (Parengyodontium album) has been isolated and sequenced for its ability to break down ocean plastic, raising concerns about its ecological impact if it proliferates.
- The potential health risks of microplastics and natural biopolymers accumulating in the body are discussed, with comparisons to the harmful effects of asbestos fibers.
- The conversation includes speculative ideas about enhancing macrophages to break down microplastics and using fungi that can coexist with human cells, though these require further research.

## [IKEA's retailer's solved global 'unhappy worker' crisis by raising salaries](https://fortune.com/europe/2024/06/11/ikeas-boss-solved-swedish-retailers-global-unhappy-worker-crisis-raising-salaries-introducing-flexible-working-subsidized-childcare/)

- Ikea addressed high employee turnover by raising wages, offering flexible work schedules, and subsidizing childcare, significantly reducing voluntary turnover rates globally.
- CEO Jon Abrahamsson Ring implemented strategies to improve frontline employee conditions and streamline operations with technology, leading to a drop in the global quit rate from 22.4% in August 2022 to 17.5% in April 2023.
- Despite improvements, Ikea continues to face challenges, including mental health support, managing a global workforce, and accusations of suppressing union efforts, particularly in the US.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40674135)

- IKEA has addressed its global 'unhappy worker' crisis by increasing wages, introducing flexible work hours, and subsidizing childcare, highlighting that worker satisfaction involves more than just higher pay.
- The discussion includes the pros and cons of company benefits versus direct monetary compensation, with some arguing that benefits can be more cost-effective and contribute to a better work environment.
- The text also touches on broader societal implications, such as the impact of dual-income households on real estate prices and the importance of child-rearing, suggesting that professional childcare can benefit children, parents, and society.

## [Nvidia Warp: A Python framework for high performance GPU simulation and graphics](https://github.com/NVIDIA/warp)

- NVIDIA Warp is a Python framework designed for high-performance simulation and graphics code, compiling Python functions into efficient kernel code for CPU or GPU.
- It supports spatial computing, physics simulation, perception, robotics, and geometry processing, and integrates with machine-learning pipelines using PyTorch and JAX.
- Installation is via PyPI, with additional dependencies available, and it requires a CUDA-capable NVIDIA GPU for GPU support. The framework is compatible with x86-64 and ARMv8 CPUs on Windows, Linux, and macOS.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40680737)

- Nvidia Warp is a new Python framework designed for high-performance GPU simulation and graphics, adding to the growing list of Python-to-GPU code projects like Taichi Lang and Numba.
- The discussion highlights the proprietary nature of Nvidia's open-source software, with concerns about restrictive licensing that prohibits using the software to develop competing products.
- Users express mixed experiences with Taichi, noting its ease of use and support for data classes, but also mentioning bugs and development issues, leading some to consider switching to Nvidia Warp.

## [Start presentations on the second slide](https://tidyfirst.substack.com/p/start-presentations-on-the-second)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40680648)

- The text emphasizes the importance of storytelling in presentations, suggesting that they should provoke thought and engage the audience from the start.
- It highlights the difference between oral presentations and slide decks in large corporations, noting that the latter are often text-heavy and self-explanatory for senior management.
- The text advises using a narrative structure in technical presentations, starting with a problem, building tension, and then providing a resolution, to make the content more engaging and memorable.

## [A look at Apple's technical approach to AI including core model performance etc.](https://www.interconnects.ai/p/apple-intelligence)

- Apple has introduced a multi-model AI system called Apple Intelligence, integrating AI into various aspects of digital life to enhance user engagement.
- Unlike competitors focusing on AI superiority, Apple emphasizes practical applications, planning to launch new AI features across all devices this fall.
- Apple's AI strategy includes core model performance, on-device strategy, and alignment strategies, with models comparable to GPT-4 and significant privacy features.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40677810)

- Apple's AI technical approach includes using Private Cloud Compute for tasks requiring more computational capacity, ensuring data sent to the cloud is not stored or accessible to Apple.
- The system involves partial client-side execution of models, with the main model execution in the cloud, and predicts the use of Local LoRAs (Low-Rank Adaptations) for dynamic machine learning and WebGPU for web-based model unlocking.
- The discussion highlights Apple's vertical integration strength, potential long-term edge device AI race, and the impact of AI on iPhone sales, contrasting with Nvidia's market position and hardware sales strategy.

## [Taking away iPhone made daughter a better person](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/article/2024/jun/13/kids-no-iphone-screen-time)

- The author banned their daughter from using her iPhone due to its negative impact on her mental health, academic performance, and behavior.
- The daughter was diagnosed with depression and anxiety, with a significant portion of her attention focused on social media and gaining peer approval.
- The author highlights the broader issue of phone addiction among children and the need for both individual and systemic changes to manage phone use effectively.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40674073)

- The article discusses the harmful effects of social media and phone addiction, suggesting these are used as avoidance behaviors to escape difficult thoughts and emotions.
- It argues that the solution is not to remove these coping mechanisms but to help individuals improve their mental health.
- The text also touches on the impact of COVID lockdowns, the shift to Linux due to privacy concerns, and the potential benefits of community-based social media networks.

## [40 out of 60 German climate greening endavours fraudulent](https://www.fr.de/politik/warnungen-milliarden-an-konzerne-gezahlt-betrugsverdacht-beim-klimaschutz-trotz-zr-93122965.html)

- The German Federal Environment Ministry is accused of negligently supporting Chinese climate protection projects, with millions of funds from the THG quota.
- Significant fraud allegations have emerged against 40 out of 60 climate protection projects in China since August 2023, leading to the discontinuation of funding by the end of 2024.
- The German government, alongside France and the Netherlands, is urging the EU Commission to address issues in the THG bonus system, which affects electric vehicle owners' incentives and lacks robust control mechanisms.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40677926)

- Fraud was detected in 40 out of 60 German climate greening projects in China, with altered documents reported by a Chinese company, suggesting potential fraud by multinational oil companies.
- German authorities accepted unverifiable claims of CO2 savings due to China's restrictions on foreign checks, despite warnings from Chinese subsidiaries about the fraud.
- The text criticizes the current carbon credit system for being easily exploitable and suggests billing for actual emissions, while acknowledging the need for a gradual transition to avoid economic disruption.

## [Microsoft's Recall AI feature is now indefinitely delayed](https://blogs.windows.com/windowsexperience/2024/06/07/update-on-the-recall-preview-feature-for-copilot-pcs/)

- On June 7, 2024, an update was announced for the Recall preview feature on Copilot+ PCs, shifting its availability to the Windows Insider Program (WIP) starting June 18, 2024, based on community feedback to ensure quality and security.
- Recall creates a visual timeline of PC activity by taking encrypted snapshots, which are stored locally and can be controlled, paused, or deleted by users; it requires Windows Hello Enhanced Sign-in Security for access.
- Copilot+ PCs, launched on May 20, 2024, are advanced Windows PCs with improved performance and AI experiences, featuring enhanced security measures like the Microsoft Pluton security processor and Secured-core PC technology.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40683210)

- Microsoft's Recall AI feature is delayed indefinitely due to unspecified security concerns, sparking speculation about strategic motives and potential misuse for surveillance.
- Concerns are raised about the potential for Recall AI to record and leak sensitive information, such as banking credentials and personal activities, leading to privacy issues.
- The delay and concerns echo past criticisms of Microsoft's anti-consumer practices, with comparisons to the backlash faced during the Xbox One launch and Adobe's recent EULA update.

## [Cost of self hosting Llama-3 8B-Instruct](https://blog.lytix.co/posts/self-hosting-llama-3)

- Self-hosting a Llama-3 8B-Instruct model is significantly more expensive than using ChatGPT, costing around $17 per 1M tokens compared to ChatGPT's $1 per 1M tokens.
- The initial high cost of self-hosting includes hardware expenses and energy costs, making it less economical despite potential long-term savings.
- Managing and scaling self-hosted hardware presents additional challenges and assumes unrealistic 100% utilization, making it less practical for most users.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40681784)

- Self-hosting hardware can significantly reduce costs compared to using AWS, with a setup involving 4x NVidia Tesla T4s costing around $3,800.
- The text discusses the pros and cons of self-hosting, emphasizing the need for a business case to justify it due to potential downtime and maintenance costs.
- Groq offers cost-effective pricing for Llama 3 models, and the text suggests using quantized models and alternative services like together.ai for better efficiency.

## [POSIX.1-2024 is published](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10555529)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40679809)

- POSIX.1-2024 has been published and will soon be available on the Open Group website, providing updated standards for shell scripting and other functionalities.
- New features in POSIX.1-2024 include sed -E for extended regular expressions, find -print0, xargs -0, read -d for secure file processing, and support for C17, strlcpy, strlcat, and more.
- The update emphasizes the importance of writing POSIX-compliant scripts for better compatibility across different systems, such as AIX, Debian, macOS, and various Linux distributions.

## [Lamini Memory Tuning: 10x Fewer Hallucinations](https://www.lamini.ai/blog/lamini-memory-tuning)

- Lamini Memory Tuning is a new method to embed facts into Large Language Models (LLMs), significantly improving factual accuracy and reducing hallucinations.
- It achieved 95% accuracy for a Fortune 500 customer, compared to 50% with other methods, and reduced hallucinations from 50% to 5%.
- The method involves tuning millions of expert adapters with precise facts on top of any open-source LLM, optimizing for zero error on specific facts while maintaining general performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40675577)

- Lamini Memory Tuning is a method that trains numerous fact-based Low-Rank Adaptations (LoRAs) to zero loss and uses Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) to select the appropriate LoRAs for a query.
- The method involves an expert router layer to decide which LoRAs to integrate at inference time, but the training process for the router is unclear.
- The model combines concepts from Mixture of Experts (MoE) and cross-attention, keeping pre-trained Large Language Model (LLM) weights constant while training on the cross-attention layer to ensure factual accuracy.

## [Notebooks Are McDonalds of Code](https://yobibyte.github.io/notebooks.html)

- Notebooks can lead to confusion with state and versioning, and promote bad habits like not testing or linting.
- They often have different setups and dependencies, which can cause code crashes and frustration.
- Notebooks are useful for testing ideas but transferring code to modules can be challenging and time-consuming.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40675397)

- Notebooks are primarily for conducting experiments and recording results, not for software development.
- Jupyter notebooks are useful for replicating course projects, inline plotting, and caching code chunks, but can be inefficient for large codebases.
- Notebooks are beneficial for rapid experimentation, teaching, and documentation, but not ideal for production code due to potential issues with maintainability and interactivity.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Land value tax in online games and virtual worlds (2022)" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Land%20value%20tax%20in%20online%20games%20and%20virtual%20worlds%20(2022)&subheading=Friday%2C%20June%2014%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
