---
slug: '/2024/06/15'
---

# 2024-06-15

## [Voyager 1 is back online! NASA spacecraft returns data from all 4 instruments](https://www.space.com/voyager-1-fully-operational)

- NASA's Voyager 1 spacecraft, after experiencing technical issues since November 2023, is now fully operational with all four science instruments returning usable data.
- The issue was traced to a chip in the flight data subsystem and resolved by relocating the code, showcasing the resilience of the 46-year-old spacecraft.
- Despite being 15 billion miles from Earth, Voyager 1 continues to provide valuable data from interstellar space, with efforts ongoing to maintain its functionality and extend its mission.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40687660)

- Voyager 1 is back online and transmitting data from all four instruments, serving as a tribute to Ed Stone, a core project scientist for Voyager who recently passed away.
- Discussions are sparked about generation ships and the potential for faster future spacecraft to reach destinations first, with concepts like time dilation and relativistic travel being explored.
- Breakthrough Starshot proposes laser sail acceleration of gram-scale probes, which could potentially overtake Voyager 1 within a decade, highlighting advancements in space travel technology.

## [Perplexity AI Is Lying about Their User Agent](https://rknight.me/blog/perplexity-ai-is-lying-about-its-user-agent/)

- The author discusses challenges in blocking AI bots, specifically Perplexity, on their server and MacStories, despite implementing blocks.
- Perplexity AI appears to bypass robots.txt restrictions and does not use the correct user agent string, making it difficult to block their access.
- The author is exploring further actions, including joining Perplexity's Discord for more information, filing a bug report, and considering a GDPR request.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40690898)

- The text discusses Perplexity AI's use of data, focusing on user control over data usage for AI training and the ethical implications of querying websites to present data in a user-requested format.
- Concerns are raised about the negative impact of aggregator services like Perplexity on content creators, as these services can decrease direct traffic to original content sources, leading to potential loss of insights and revenue.
- The text also touches on broader issues of copyright, legality, and ethics in AI training and data scraping, comparing practices to historical cases and discussing the potential need for new regulations and analytics features.

## [Exponentially Better Rotations (2022)](http://thenumb.at/Exponential-Rotations/)

- 3D programming involves various techniques for 3D rotations, including rotation matrices, Euler angles, and quaternions, each with its own advantages and limitations.
- Euler angles can cause issues like gimbal lock and inconsistent angular velocity, making them less suitable for interpolation in applications like robotics.
- Quaternions and axis/angle rotations are highlighted as more effective for composing and interpolating rotations, with quaternions offering a robust method for 3D point rotations and easy computation of the exponential map.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40684901)

- The text explains the Lie group/Lie algebra correspondence, a mathematical concept useful for 3D rotations, allowing for smooth transitions and compositions using exponential and logarithmic maps.
- Quaternions are highlighted for their efficiency in computer graphics, particularly in animation, due to their compact representation and computational advantages over 3x3 matrices.
- The discussion includes the use of Kalman filters for estimating rotations, the complexities of averaging rotations, and the application of various metrics in fields like robotics and video game development.

## [Tesla's FSD – A Useless Technology Demo](https://tomverbeure.github.io/2024/05/20/Tesla-FSD-First-and-Last-Impressions.html)

- Tesla is offering a free trial of their Full Self-Driving (FSD) system, but users report it still makes significant errors, requiring driver intervention.
- In multiple tests, FSD made mistakes such as incorrect lane changes, nervous corrections, and even running a red light, leading to concerns about its reliability.
- The author concludes that while FSD shows potential, it currently lacks practical value and prefers the more reliable autopilot features like adaptive cruise control and lane centering.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40688001)

- Tesla's Full Self-Driving (FSD) technology is criticized for being more of a stock price booster than a viable product, with doubts about its technological superiority over competitors.
- Reports indicate Tesla's weak driver engagement system is inappropriate for Autopilot's capabilities, leading to misuse, crashes, and at least 13 fatal incidents.
- The debate includes skepticism about Tesla's promises, the complexity of achieving full autonomy, and the need for more sensors to improve driving, highlighting the gap between user expectations and actual capabilities.

## [Snowden: "They've gone full mask-off: do not ever trust OpenAI or its products"](https://twitter.com/Snowden/status/1801610725229498403)

- Edward Snowden has publicly criticized OpenAI for appointing an NSA Director to their board, suggesting it is a betrayal of global rights.
- Snowden's warning implies concerns about privacy and surveillance with OpenAI's products, including ChatGPT.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40685644)

- Edward Snowden warns against trusting OpenAI, suggesting a rush to bypass intellectual property rights and exploit works without proper attribution or payment.
- The text discusses the appointment of board members in companies like OpenAI, questioning the authenticity and potential for rubber-stamping decisions for financial gain.
- Concerns are raised about AI's impact on privacy, copyright infringement, and the potential collaboration between OpenAI and the government, leading some users to cancel their accounts and delete their data.

## [Syzygy: An open standard for low cost, compact and high-performance peripherals](https://syzygyfpga.io/)

- SYZYGY is an open standard designed for high-performance peripheral connectivity, offering cost-effective and compact connectors and cables.
- It bridges the gap between low-speed Digilent PMOD devices and high-performance VITA 57.1 FMC peripherals, making it ideal for prototypes, system integration, testing, and evaluation systems.
- SYZYGY provides two types of connectors: a 40-pin standard peripheral connector and a 60-pin transceiver peripheral connector, both supporting fixed and programmable voltages and single-ended signals.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40686787)

- The text discusses the potential benefits of integrating hard PCIe (Peripheral Component Interconnect Express) endpoints into MCUs (Microcontroller Units) and MPUs (Microprocessor Units) for high-speed, low-latency communication.
- Current limitations include the need for expensive FPGAs (Field-Programmable Gate Arrays) or a limited selection of MCUs/MPUs to utilize PCIe, and the lack of fast data transfer options in RISC-V MCUs.
- The text highlights the development of the Syzygy standard by Opal Kelly, which uses innovative methods like analog voltage for peripheral addressing and has seen gradual adoption, though its popularity remains unclear compared to other standards like FMC (FPGA Mezzanine Card).

## [Threescaper: A website for loading Townscaper models into Three.js](https://github.com/meliharvey/threescaper)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40689296)

- Threescaper is a website that allows users to load Townscaper models into Three.js, enhancing the interactive 3D experience.
- Tiny Glade, an upcoming game written in Rust using Bevy, is noted for its intuitive building UI/UX, with suggestions to incorporate similar concepts into Unreal Editor.
- The author discusses an interactive 3D project with features like teleportation and double jumps, and mentions performance issues and nostalgic elements reminiscent of Battlefield Heroes.

## [Spaced repetition for teaching two-year olds how to read](https://chrislakin.blog/p/spaced-repetition-for-teaching-two)

- A father, known as CoffeePie, used Anki, a spaced repetition tool, to teach his children to read years earlier than average, starting at ages 2 and 1 year 9 months.
- By age 5, his daughter was reading in English, Hebrew, and Spanish at a level comparable to a fifth or eighth grader, while his son knew multiplication tables and advanced math concepts.
- The father observed that while Anki was effective for early reading and math, it had limitations as his children's skills advanced, necessitating more complex problem-solving tools.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40685254)

- The debate centers on whether teaching two-year-olds to read is beneficial or potentially harmful, with arguments on both sides regarding social and cognitive impacts.
- A developmental researcher argues that child development milestones vary and that pushing children too hard can be counterproductive, emphasizing the importance of following a child's curiosity and interest.
- The text discusses various methods and tools for teaching reading, such as flashcards, interactive curriculums, and spaced repetition, highlighting the need for engaging and age-appropriate content.

## [Making my local LLM voice assistant faster and more scalable with RAG](https://johnthenerd.com/blog/faster-local-llm-assistant/)

- The author is working on optimizing a local LLM (Large Language Model) voice assistant for smart home control, focusing on reducing latency during the "prefill" phase of inference.
- They implemented a RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) method to split large prompts into smaller sections, which helps in reducing context length and improving speed.
- The author created a RAG API, added features like weather forecasts and calendar events, and updated their system to use this new API, aiming to make the voice assistant more efficient and responsive.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40686396)

- Users discuss precomputing embeddings for common services to enhance the speed of LLM (Large Language Model) voice assistants, with some suggesting recommendation algorithms as a viable solution.
- There is a debate about the model `casperhansen/llama-3-70b-instruct-awq`, its basis on Llama 2, and its performance, with some users finding the lag between query and response problematic.
- Opinions vary on whether AI should mimic human behavior or simply perform tasks, with some users amused by the model's sarcastic tone and others finding the introduction inhuman.

## [Django SQLite Production Config](https://blog.pecar.me/sqlite-django-config)

- The default SQLite configuration in Django is not suitable for production due to its low-concurrency optimization, which contrasts with Django's needs.
- For Django versions 5.0, 4.2, or older, enabling WAL (Write-Ahead Logging) journal mode can improve concurrency by preventing write requests from blocking reads.
- Django 5.1, expected in August 2024, will allow these SQLite optimizations to be configured directly in settings.py, simplifying the process for developers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40688336)

- Django SQLite Production Config has a significant issue with SQLite in WAL (Write-Ahead Logging) mode, where the WAL file can grow excessively under high load, potentially causing system failure.
- A workaround involves running a separate thread to monitor the WAL size and slow down reads and writes if it exceeds 8 MB, but this suggests SQLite in WAL mode may not be suitable for production environments.
- PostgreSQL is recommended for most small to medium projects due to its better handling of high-volume transactions and fewer limitations compared to SQLite.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Voyager 1 is back online! NASA spacecraft returns data from all 4 instruments" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Voyager%201%20is%20back%20online!%20NASA%20spacecraft%20returns%20data%20from%20all%204%20instruments&subheading=Saturday%2C%20June%2015%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
