---
slug: '/2024/06/16'
---

# 2024-06-16

## [We Made The World's Smallest and Cheapest Network Switch](https://docs.murexrobotics.com/elec/boards/networking/switch)

- MUREX Robotics, a high school team from Exeter, NH, has released an open-source technology available for $6.9 from JLCPCB.
- They are selling a limited run of under 25 units for $10 plus shipping, with board files accessible on GitHub.
- For inquiries, contact Byran at byran@mrx.ee or Max at max@mrx.ee.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40694254)

- MUREX Robotics, a high school team from Exeter, NH, has developed the world's smallest and cheapest network switch, priced at $6.9.
- The switch is open-source and designed to be cost-effective and accessible, targeting applications where size and cost are critical.
- The team plans to sell a small batch of these boards soon, emphasizing their mission to democratize technology through open-source electronics.

## [What You Get After Running an SSH Honeypot for 30 Days](https://blog.sofiane.cc/ssh_honeypot/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40694768)

- A user running an SSH honeypot for 30 days noted significant illegitimate traffic, primarily from "internet security companies" scanning the IPv4 space.
- Blocking these networks reduced unwanted traffic by over 50%, but the discussion underscores the limitations of IP blocking due to CGNAT (Carrier-Grade Network Address Translation).
- Emphasis is placed on using security tools like fail2ban, VPNs, and public key authentication to protect servers, with users sharing experiences of self-hosting and the challenges of constant attacks.

## [Do not try to be the smartest in the room; try to be the kindest](https://www.jorgegalindo.me/en/blog/posts/do-not-be-the-smartest-in-the-room-try-to-be-the-kindest)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40695997)

- Emphasizing kindness over intelligence can improve team dynamics and productivity through listening, respect, empathy, and problem-solving.
- Kindness creates a lasting impact and fosters a positive work environment, which is crucial for long-term success.
- While intelligence is important, the benefits of kindness in a professional setting should not be underestimated.

## [NLRB judge declares non-compete clause is an unfair labor practice](https://www.nlrbedge.com/p/in-first-case-of-its-kind-nlrb-judge)

- NLRB Judge Sarah Karpinen ruled that non-compete and coworker non-solicitation clauses are unfair labor practices, marking a landmark decision.
- The case involved J.O. Mory, Inc., where a union organizer was fired for "salting" (organizing coworkers), and the judge ordered the organizer's reinstatement with backpay.
- This is the first time an Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) has ruled these clauses as unfair labor practices, emphasizing the NLRB's stance against such clauses for non-supervisory workers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40696992)

- An NLRB judge has ruled that non-compete clauses are an unfair labor practice, igniting discussions on other restrictive employment practices.
- The ruling has led to debates on non-solicitation clauses and company policies that restrict managers from giving references, which some argue hinder job mobility.
- This decision is part of a larger conversation about balancing power between employers and employees, with calls for increased worker protections to ensure fair treatment and job market mobility.

## [French court orders Google, Cloudflare, Cisco to poison DNS to stop piracy](https://torrentfreak.com/google-cloudflare-cisco-will-poison-dns-to-stop-piracy-block-circumvention-240613/)

- A French court has mandated Google, Cloudflare, and Cisco to block access to approximately 117 pirate sports streaming domains via their DNS resolvers, intensifying anti-piracy efforts for broadcaster Canal+.
- Canal+ has also been granted permission to remove these sites from search results, leveraging existing site-blocking laws in France to combat piracy.
- Despite arguments about the minimal impact on piracy rates, the court upheld Canal+'s rights, and Google has confirmed it will comply with the order, raising questions about future anti-piracy strategies.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40693451)

- A French court has mandated Google, Cloudflare, and Cisco to alter their DNS resolvers to block access to approximately 117 pirate sports streaming domains.
- This ruling contrasts with previous resistance from tech companies against similar U.S. legislation, highlighting a shift in their stance to maintain control and avoid legal issues.
- Critics propose using personal DNS resolvers to circumvent these blocks, sparking ongoing debates about the balance between anti-piracy measures and internet freedom.

## [The Raspberry Pi 5 Is No Match for a Tini-Mini-Micro PC](https://louwrentius.com/the-raspberry-pi-5-is-no-match-for-a-tini-mini-micro-pc.html)

- The Raspberry Pi 5, released in fall 2023, offers improved performance but is still limited by SD card storage and higher costs compared to previous models.
- Second-hand 1L mini PCs from brands like Dell, Lenovo, and HP outperform the Pi 5 in terms of processing power, RAM capacity, and storage options (SATA and NVME SSDs).
- While the Raspberry Pi 5 is energy-efficient, second-hand mini PCs are better suited for home server applications due to their superior performance and built-in SSD/NVME support.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40697831)

- The Raspberry Pi 5 has lost its affordability due to the end of a special deal with Broadcom, making it less competitive in the current market.
- Users are finding better value in second-hand mini PCs, which offer more power and features for a similar price.
- While the Pi 5 remains strong in educational and GPIO (General-Purpose Input/Output) applications, alternatives like used Intel NUCs or new N100 mini PCs are more attractive for general computing tasks.

## [SimCity in the web browser using WebAssembly and OpenGL](https://micropolisweb.com/)

- Micropolis in WebAssembly is a port of the original SimCity Classic by Maxis, designed by Will Wright and ported by Don Hopkins.
- The project is evolving, with ongoing development supported on Patreon and available on GitHub.
- Users can interact with the game using various controls, such as mouse and keyboard shortcuts, with more features and easter eggs promised in future updates.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40693944)

- SimCity has been ported to the web browser using WebAssembly and OpenGL, making it accessible without needing to install software.
- This project is based on the original SimCity Classic code and aims to bring the game to modern platforms with improved performance and accessibility.
- The port is still a work in progress, with ongoing efforts to enhance the user interface, add mobile support, and optimize performance.

## [The Architecture Behind a One-Person Tech Startup (2021)](https://anthonynsimon.com/blog/one-man-saas-architecture/)

- The post outlines the infrastructure setup for running a one-person SaaS (Software as a Service) using Kubernetes on AWS, highlighting its low-stress, self-funded nature.
- Key components include traffic management with Cloudflare and AWS, deployment automation via GitHub Actions and Flux, and reliability through Kubernetes' autoscaling and liveliness probes.
- Additional features cover caching with Redis, rate-limiting with Django Ratelimit, scheduled tasks with Celery, and monitoring with New Relic and Sentry, providing a comprehensive overview of managing a solo tech startup.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40694103)

- The best tech stack for a startup is one that the team is already familiar with, as learning new technologies can add unnecessary complexity.
- Prioritize quick deployment and consider refactoring later; users care more about a functional product than the underlying technology.
- While some new technologies like Kubernetes might be overkill, simpler solutions such as Docker Swarm or managed services can be more appropriate for balancing simplicity and scalability.

## [Simple sabotage for software (2023)](https://erikbern.com/2023/12/13/simple-sabotage-for-software.html)

- The CIA's "Simple Sabotage" book from World War 2 provides timeless advice on disrupting productivity, now humorously adapted for modern tech environments.
- Suggested sabotage techniques for a CTO include requiring lengthy rewrites, encouraging diverse languages, and splitting systems to increase complexity.
- Other methods include dismissing useful metrics, linking compensation to title and team size, and creating a subjective hiring process, all aimed at subtly slowing down productivity through plausible actions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40695839)

- A discussion on simple sabotage in software, referencing a 2023 article by Erik Bernhardsson, questions the effectiveness of original CIA sabotage tactics.
- Commenters debate the practicality and impact of these strategies, noting that bad management and misguided profit optimization can naturally cripple organizations.
- The conversation includes historical context, the role of incompetence, and modern practices like complex self-service systems and mandatory return-to-office policies that may inadvertently align with sabotage principles.

## [European Alternatives](https://european-alternatives.eu)

- The post highlights European alternatives for various digital services and products, emphasizing support for local businesses and adherence to GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation).
- It lists categories of services with the number of alternatives available, such as web analytics, cloud computing, and email providers, among others.
- The post underscores the benefits of choosing European providers, including VAT refunds, common European payment methods, and easier enforcement of rights within the EU due to unified laws.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40695754)

- European Alternatives lists products and services from companies based in EU, EEA, EFTA, or DCFTA member countries, excluding non-EU/EFTA sub-hosting providers.
- The site covers categories such as identity and access management, VPS providers, and search engines, with discussions on post-Brexit UK exclusion and EU regulation compliance.
- Users also debate the quality of services like Hetzner and Tuta, and the geopolitical implications of data privacy and competition in the European tech landscape.

## [Building SimCity: How to put the world in a machine](https://mitpress.mit.edu/9780262547482/building-simcity/)

- "Building SimCity" by Chaim Gingold explores the history and development of the influential simulation game SimCity, created by Will Wright.
- The book covers the impact of SimCity on computer simulation and the history of Maxis, the company behind the game, with visual materials like diagrams and photographs.
- Published by The MIT Press, it will be available in both paperback and eBook formats starting June 2024.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40698442)

- Chaim Gingold, author and designer on Spore, is available for a Q&A session, with Will Wright interviewing him on July 19th at 2 PM ET on Twitch, hosted by ROMchip.
- Stewart Brand praised Gingold's book as one of the best origin stories and accounts of innovation in computing.
- Gingold recommends City Skylines, Minecraft, and Tiny Glade as modern successors to SimCity, highlighting the influence of generative AI on game development.

## [SQLite is likely used more than all other database engines combined](https://sqlite.org/mostdeployed.html)

- SQLite is the most widely deployed and used database engine, present in billions of devices and applications, including Android, iOS, Mac, Windows 10, major web browsers, and various popular applications.
- With over 4 billion smartphones each containing hundreds of SQLite databases, there are likely over one trillion active SQLite databases globally.
- SQLite is one of the top five most deployed software modules, potentially the second most widely deployed software library after zlib, and possibly the most widely deployed software component due to its multiple instances per device.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40693500)

- SQLite is extensively used, likely more than all other database engines combined, due to its ease of use, reliability, and offline functionality.
- Users are transitioning from json+zip to gzipped SQLite for better schema enforcement when downloading data for backups or sharing.
- Despite its popularity, SQLite is not open for contributions, but its file format is well-documented and stable, making it ideal for many applications, including iOS and Android.

## [Experts vs. Imitators](https://fs.blog/experts-vs-imitators/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40699079)

- The discussion contrasts experts with imitators, emphasizing that true expertise involves deep understanding and effective communication.
- Experts argue that the ability to explain complex topics in simple terms is crucial, highlighting the importance of good communication skills alongside technical knowledge.
- The conversation touches on the challenges experts face in conveying intricate concepts to laymen, using examples like programming languages Rust and Python to illustrate these difficulties.

## [Making my first embedded Linux system](https://popovicu.com/posts/making-my-first-embedded-linux-system/)

- The post details the author's journey of building a Linux system from scratch, starting with no prior PCB (Printed Circuit Board) experience.
- Key steps include programming microcontrollers like the Atmel ATtiny, designing a custom PCB, and creating an embedded Linux board using the F1C100s SoC (System on Chip).
- The project involved using tools like avrdude for programming, a 4-layer PCB for complex routing, and adapting a Lichee Pi software image for the custom board.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40695165)

- A user shared their experience creating their first embedded Linux system, sparking a discussion on technical details and improvements.
- Key points include the use of a 16 Mbit flash, differential routing, and the potential benefits of adding an SD card connector.
- The project utilized the Allwinner F1C100S, a 533MHz single-core ARMv7 with 32MB of onboard DRAM, prompting comparisons with other similar processors.

## [A collection of 2,299 blogs about every topic](https://ooh.directory/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40693787)

- A new collection of 2,299 blogs on various topics has been launched on ooh.directory, reminiscent of early web directories like Yahoo's categorized link directory.
- Users appreciate the curated nature of the directory, which improves discoverability compared to ad-filled search engines.
- The directory is seen as a valuable resource for finding new blogs and interviewees, especially in an era where AI-generated content is prevalent.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="We Made The World's Smallest and Cheapest Network Switch" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=We%20Made%20The%20World's%20Smallest%20and%20Cheapest%20Network%20Switch&subheading=Sunday%2C%20June%2016%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
