---
slug: '/2024/06/20'
---

# 2024-06-20

## [EU Council has withdrawn the vote on Chat Control](https://stackdiary.com/eu-council-has-withdrawn-the-vote-on-chat-control/)

- The article discusses the leading web browsers that prioritize user privacy and security, highlighting their features and benefits.
- It provides a comparison of browsers like Brave, Firefox, and Tor, which are known for their strong privacy protections and security measures.
- The focus is on how these browsers handle user data, block trackers, and offer enhanced security features to protect against online threats.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40736771)

- The EU Council has withdrawn the vote on the Chat Control proposal, which faced significant opposition, particularly from German officials.
- The proposal, criticized for its lack of technical expertise and potential dangers, may resurface when Hungary assumes the EU presidency.
- Despite the withdrawal, the issue remains unresolved and could be revisited in the future.

## [Tetris as Font](https://erikdemaine.org/fonts/tetris/)

- Erik and Martin Demaine designed a Tetris-inspired font where each letter and digit is constructed from Tetris pieces (I, J, L, O, S, T, Z).
- The font design uses BurrTools software and adheres to Tetris rules, including the Super Rotation System for initial piece rotations.
- The font is part of a mathematical analysis of Tetris, highlighting its NP-complete nature, and was inspired by a collaboration during BRIDGES 2017.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40737294)

- Erik Demaine has created a font where each letter and digit is composed of Tetris pieces, designed manually with the aid of BurrTools software.
- A demo of a font playing Tetris using Harfbuzz shaper with WebAssembly has been shared, showcasing innovative use of web technologies.
- The project has garnered significant interest and positive feedback from the tech community, highlighting its novelty and the creative intersection of typography and gaming.

## [Claude 3.5 Sonnet](https://www.anthropic.com/news/claude-3-5-sonnet)

- Claude 3.5 Sonnet, the first in the Claude 3.5 model family, has been launched, offering superior performance compared to competitor models and Claude 3 Opus, with availability on Claude.ai, the Claude iOS app, and via various APIs.
- The model excels in graduate-level reasoning, coding proficiency, and visual reasoning tasks, making it suitable for complex tasks like customer support and multi-step workflows, and it introduces new features like Artifacts for dynamic content generation and editing.
- Safety and privacy are prioritized, with rigorous testing and external evaluations, and future plans include the release of Claude 3.5 Haiku and Claude 3.5 Opus, along with new features like Memory for personalized experiences.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40738916)

- Claude 3.5 Sonnet has been released, receiving praise for its performance, particularly in coding tasks, with some users preferring it over GPT-4o due to better results and faster responses.
- Users have noted the absence of conversation sharing and an Android app as drawbacks, but the model is still lauded for its speed, quality, and more human-like responses compared to GPT models.
- Despite minor issues, the overall reception is positive, with many users excited about the improvements and new features introduced by Anthropic's new model.

## [X debut 40 years ago (1984)](https://www.talisman.org/x-debut.shtml)

- The X Window System, developed by Robert W. Scheifler, debuted on June 19, 1984, and is designed for the VS100, offering twice the speed of its predecessor, W.
- The Laboratory for Computer Science (LCS) has adopted X, building applications on it, and encourages others using W to switch to X for better performance and experimentation.
- Current interfaces include CLU and Argus, with a C interface in development; existing applications are a text editor (TED), an Argus I/O interface, and a basic window manager, though documentation is still needed.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40731922)

- X11, a windowing system for bitmap displays, celebrated its 40th anniversary, having debuted in 1984.
- Users shared nostalgic experiences, from configuring modelines and managing Unix systems to the evolution of computer labs and the transition to Linux.
- Discussions highlighted the decline of traditional computer labs due to the rise of affordable laptops and the significant impact of X11 on many careers.

## [Hypermedia Systems](https://hypermedia.systems/)

- htmx and Hyperview offer revolutionary methods for simplifying web application development, eliminating the need for Single Page Application (SPA) frameworks.
- These tools are ideal for web developers who want to focus on simplicity, reinforce their understanding of web fundamentals, or explore hypermedia and REST (Representational State Transfer).
- Resources are available online for free, with options to purchase hard copies or ebooks on Amazon.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40733160)

- The HTMX documentation is useful for reference but lacks a comprehensive tutorial, which this book aims to provide.
- HTMX is recommended for internal tools and mildly dynamic websites but may not be suitable for long mobile sessions due to browser optimizations.
- A combination of vanilla JavaScript (JS) or Alpine.js can enhance HTMX websites, and sometimes a full framework like Vue or React is necessary for highly dynamic sections.

## [Free software hijacked Philip Hazel's life](https://lwn.net/SubscriberLink/978463/608c876c1153fd31/)

- Philip Hazel, the creator of Exim MTA and PCRE, has maintained PCRE and its successor, PCRE2, for over 27 years and is now seeking a successor for PCRE2.
- Hazel's career highlights include significant contributions to Unix systems and the development of widely adopted software like Exim and PCRE, which are used in major projects such as Apache HTTPD and Postfix.
- The community appreciates the article and calls for more features on open-source developers, highlighting the practical impact and challenges of maintaining such projects.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40736577)

- Philip Hazel's experience highlights the challenges in finding new maintainers for free software projects, particularly for well-maintained ones like PCRE2.
- Concerns include new maintainers potentially adding unnecessary features and the lack of incentives for maintaining "finished" software, leading to volunteer burnout and stress.
- The discussion also mentions the potential for intelligence services to target open source projects and the difficulties in vetting new maintainers.

## [Nobody knows what's going on](https://www.raptitude.com/2024/06/nobody-knows-whats-going-on/)

- A reporter's mistake about the author's retirement at 33 illustrates how easily misinformation can spread, especially online.
- The Gell-Mann Amnesia effect explains why people trust media on unfamiliar topics despite recognizing inaccuracies in familiar areas.
- Reliable knowledge is often rare and comes from those deeply invested in specific fields, but humans are generally driven by social and emotional incentives rather than accuracy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40733615)

- The discussion highlights the phenomenon where people realize the inaccuracy of articles on topics they know well, leading to skepticism about articles on topics they don't know.
- This is often referred to as the Gell-Mann Amnesia effect, where people forget the inaccuracies in one article when reading others in the same publication.
- The conversation also touches on the broader implications of misinformation and the challenges of discerning accurate information in media and online discussions.

## [I made a puzzle game that gently introduces my favorite math mysteries](https://www.rahulilango.com/coloring/)

- The game aims to spark curiosity about math through interactive questions and ideas, rather than providing detailed explanations.
- Technical features include integer intersection points, semi-accurate map drawings using topojson, a backtracking algorithm for graph coloring, and polygon detection with turf.js.
- Tradeoffs include delaying educational links to maintain game flow and using simpler maps to ensure mobile-friendliness.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40740021)

- A puzzle game was created to introduce math mysteries interactively, aiming to spark curiosity rather than provide detailed explanations.
- Technical aspects include using topojson for accurate maps, a backtracking algorithm for graph coloring, and turf.js for polygonizing line segments.
- The game has been well-received, with users enjoying the interactive learning experience and providing feedback for improvements, such as better mobile compatibility and clearer explanations.

## [Oldest white wine in the world found in a first-century tomb in Spain](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jasrep.2024.104636)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40735743)

- The oldest white wine in the world was discovered in a first-century Roman tomb in Carmona, southern Spain.
- The wine, found in a reddish liquid form within an ash urn, is considered the oldest ancient wine preserved in liquid form.
- The preservation of the wine is credited to a perfect seal and stable underground temperatures, despite the tomb enduring numerous historical events.

## [OSRD: Open-Source Railway Designer](https://osrd.fr/en/)

- An open-source web app for railway design, capacity analysis, and timetabling is now available on GitHub.
- Key features include railway infrastructure and timetable design, capacity analysis, conflict detection, and short-term planning with automatic train additions.
- The project is free to use, develop, and distribute, with a focus on collective decision-making and support for custom infrastructure formats and signaling systems.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40733705)

- OSRD (Open-Source Railway Designer) is a professional tool for railway design, supported by the EU and France, and featured in a FOSDEM talk.
- The tool aims for real-time cooperation between multiple entities, using a web-based approach to facilitate ease of access and scalability.
- The software is designed to be intuitive but may require some familiarity with railway planning; it includes features like automated timetable robustness assessment using stochastic simulation.

## [The Delusion of Advanced Plastic Recycling](https://www.propublica.org/article/delusion-advanced-chemical-plastic-recycling-pyrolysis)

- The plastics industry is advocating for pyrolysis, a method that uses heat to break down plastic into molecular components, as a solution to plastic waste.
- Despite claims, pyrolysis is inefficient, producing minimal recycled plastic and mostly non-recyclable chemicals and fuels.
- The industry employs complex accounting to exaggerate the recycled content of products, potentially misleading consumers about the effectiveness of chemical recycling.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40737308)

- ProPublica's article "The Delusion of Advanced Plastic Recycling" sparks debate on the effectiveness of plastic recycling, with some arguing it leads to more pollution and is largely ineffective.
- Alternatives suggested include better-managed landfills, reducing plastic use, and improving packaging technology, alongside systemic changes like taxing producers to incentivize less plastic use.
- The discussion emphasizes the need for collective action and improved waste management practices to address environmental concerns.

## [NPM and NodeJS should do more to make ES Modules easy to use](https://borischerny.com/javascript,/typescript/2024/06/19/ES-Modules-Are-A-Mess.html)

- Boris Cherny's blog highlights the difficulties of using ES Modules in NodeJS and NPM, especially for those returning from other languages like Python and Hack.
- Despite ES Modules being introduced to improve code load times, their adoption is low, with only 9-27% of projects using them and less than 6% of files declaring them via specific extensions.
- Cherny proposes simplifying the ecosystem by eliminating .mjs and .cjs extensions, making type=module the default in package.json, upgrading libraries to ES Modules, and eventually phasing out require and module.exports in NodeJS.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40737508)

- NPM and NodeJS are encouraged to simplify the usage of ES Modules to ease adoption without requiring extensive refactoring.
- Node.js 22 supports ES modules with the `--experimental-require-module` flag, but the transition remains challenging for many projects.
- Users propose solutions like `importSync()` to bridge the gap between CommonJS and ES modules, sparking ongoing debates on the best approach to modernize the ecosystem.

## [Curl is inside 22,734 Steam games](https://daniel.haxx.se/blog/2024/06/20/inside-22734-steam-games/)

- cURL and libcurl are used in 22,734 out of 91,559 Steam games, accounting for 24.8% of the titles, according to SteamDB.
- This data confirms the significant adoption of cURL in the gaming industry, which was previously speculated but unverified.
- The widespread use of cURL in games highlights its importance and reliability as a tool for developers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40737349)

- Curl is integrated into 22,734 Steam games and is the HTTP library for desktop platforms in Unreal Engine, showcasing its extensive use in the gaming industry.
- The blog post discusses the design of the curl API, with some users questioning it while others defend its functionality and reliability.
- There is a notable lack of financial support for the cURL project from profitable studios, highlighting the challenges of securing contributions to open-source projects despite its permissive license.

## [Unique3D: Image-to-3D Generation from a Single Image](https://github.com/AiuniAI/Unique3D)

- Unique3D introduces a method for generating high-fidelity 3D meshes from single-view images in just 30 seconds, making it a significant advancement in 3D modeling.
- The project is still under development, with plans to release weights, a local Gradio demo, a detailed tutorial, and support for various platforms including Windows and Docker.
- The setup instructions are provided for both Linux and Windows, and the project acknowledges contributions from other notable projects like Stable Diffusion and Wonder3d.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40732490)

- Unique3D is a new tool that generates 3D models from a single image, sparking interest among tech enthusiasts and 3D artists.
- Critics argue that while the tool claims "high quality," it lacks essential features like usable topology, retopology (retopo), and UV unwrapping, which are crucial for production-quality models.
- The discussion highlights the need for AI tools to address practical concerns of 3D professionals rather than just achieving high benchmarks in research papers.

## [Atkinson Dithering](https://beyondloom.com/blog/dither.html)

- The original Macintosh, released in 1984, featured a 72 dpi black-and-white display with a 512x342 resolution, capable of rendering an 80-column terminal with a scrollbar.
- Two popular dithering techniques used to simulate grayscale on this display are Floyd-Steinberg and Atkinson dithering, both of which have JavaScript implementations for modern use.
- Floyd-Steinberg dithering distributes quantization errors to neighboring pixels, while Atkinson dithering, developed by Bill Atkinson, spreads error in a broader pattern, preserving 3/4ths of the error for richer contrast.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40739710)

- Atkinson Dithering, a technique used for creating images with reduced color palettes, is being discussed for its historical and modern applications.
- The technique, originally developed for the Macintosh, is praised for its ability to maintain image quality in low-color environments, such as early computer displays and modern e-ink screens.
- The discussion highlights the continued relevance of dithering in various fields, including digital video playback, print media, and retro gaming, emphasizing its role in preventing issues like color banding and posterization.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="EU Council has withdrawn the vote on Chat Control" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=EU%20Council%20has%20withdrawn%20the%20vote%20on%20Chat%20Control&subheading=Thursday%2C%20June%2020%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
