---
slug: '/2024/06/21'
---

# 2024-06-21

## [Gilead shot prevents all HIV cases in trial](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-06-20/gilead-shot-prevents-100-of-hiv-cases-in-trial-of-african-women)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40742163)

- Gilead's new HIV shot, cabotegravir, has shown to prevent all cases in a trial, presenting a promising alternative to daily pills.
- The shot is administered every two months, with potential extension to every three months, which could simplify adherence and increase compliance.
- Concerns exist about potential adverse reactions due to the drug's long presence in the system, but it can be tested in pill form first.

## [Allan McDonald refused to approve Challenger launch, exposed cover-up (2021)](https://www.npr.org/2021/03/07/974534021/remembering-allan-mcdonald-he-refused-to-approve-challenger-launch-exposed-cover)

- Allan McDonald, who passed away at 83, was a pivotal figure in the Challenger space shuttle disaster, known for refusing to approve the launch due to safety concerns.
- After the disaster, McDonald exposed NASA's cover-up, revealing that engineers had opposed the launch due to freezing temperatures affecting the O-rings, leading to his temporary demotion.
- McDonald later led the redesign of the booster rockets, co-authored a definitive account of the disaster, and became an advocate for ethical decision-making in engineering.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40748371)

- Allan McDonald refused to approve the Challenger launch due to safety concerns, revealing a cover-up by NASA and Morton Thiokol executives.
- Despite intense pressure, McDonald and other engineers were overruled by higher-ups, leading to the Challenger disaster.
- McDonald later advocated for ethical decision-making, highlighting the tension between technical accuracy and managerial pressure in high-stakes projects.

## [Ladybird browser spreads its wings](https://lwn.net/Articles/976822/)

- Ladybird is an open-source web browser project, forked from SerenityOS by Andreas Kling, aiming to be independent of Chrome and written in C++ under a BSD license.
- Although still in early development and lacking many features, Ladybird shows promise with basic functionalities and significant community contributions, targeting Linux, macOS, and UNIX-like systems, with Windows support via WSL.
- Community reactions are mixed, with some seeing potential and others suggesting focus on existing browsers, but supporters argue that new projects like Ladybird are essential for a healthy browser ecosystem.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40746804)

- Ladybird browser, a new community-built web browser, is gaining attention as a potential daily driver, diverging from mainstream options like Chrome and Firefox.
- Discussions highlight the challenges of creating a simpler, more secure browser that supports only a subset of web technologies, balancing functionality and user adoption.
- The project is seen as a valuable learning opportunity for new developers, with well-documented build processes and broad areas for contribution.

## [MeshAnything – Converts 3D representations into efficient 3D meshes](https://buaacyw.github.io/mesh-anything/)

- MeshAnything introduces a novel method for generating Artist-Created Meshes (AMs) from 3D representations using autoregressive transformers, enhancing 3D asset production efficiency and precision.
- The approach significantly reduces the number of mesh faces, improving storage, rendering, and simulation efficiencies while maintaining high-quality geometric features.
- The architecture employs a VQ-VAE and a shape-conditioned decoder-only transformer, demonstrating superior topology and fewer faces compared to traditional methods, making it a significant advancement in the 3D industry.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40746310)

- MeshAnything converts 3D representations into efficient 3D meshes, reducing the number of faces for better storage and rendering performance.
- The tool requires 7GB of memory and 30 seconds on an A6000 GPU, but is limited to generating meshes with fewer than 800 faces.
- While some users criticize its custom non-commercial license and the quality of the generated meshes, it is considered a promising tool for game development and 3D model generation.

## [How babies and young children learn to understand language](https://lithub.com/how-babies-and-young-children-learn-to-understand-language/)

- Steven Mithen examines whether language acquisition in babies and young children is due to specialized mental processes or general learning mechanisms.
- He highlights the use of "transitional probabilities" by infants to identify words within continuous speech, showcasing their statistical learning abilities.
- Mithen's insights challenge traditional views on language evolution and underscore the complexity of early language learning.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40744558)

- Babies and young children learn language through a mix of parental guidance and statistical learning, where parents repeat simple words with pauses to help recognize word boundaries.
- Bilingual children may mix languages, creating new words that make statistical sense, demonstrating the influence of multilingual environments on pronunciation and grammar.
- Consistent language exposure is crucial, as children adapt based on their environment and interactions, combining natural immersion with structured learning to understand patterns and rules.

## [Innovation heroes are a sign of a dysfunctional organization](https://steveblank.substack.com/p/why-innovation-heroes-are-a-sign)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40749754)

- A finance team doubled their expected work but faced criticism for disrupting burn-down charts, leading to the creation of placeholder tickets to game the system.
- This scenario highlights common issues in large institutions where metrics and bureaucracy can overshadow actual productivity.
- Effective innovation requires trust, communication, and a supportive culture, rather than relying solely on individual heroics.

## [OpenAI Acquires Rockset](https://openai.com/index/openai-acquires-rockset/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40750391)

- OpenAI has acquired Rockset, leading to speculation about the strategic reasons behind the move, such as enhancing data infrastructure or acquiring talent from Rockset's leadership with Meta backgrounds.
- Concerns have been raised regarding Rockset's fit for OpenAI's needs and the impact on existing Rockset customers, who need to transition by September 2024.
- The acquisition has sparked debates on vendor reliability and its broader implications for the AI and database industries.

## [Local voice assistant using Ollama, transformers and Coqui TTS toolkit](https://github.com/mezbaul-h/june)

- **june-va** is a local voice chatbot integrating Ollama, Hugging Face Transformers, and Coqui TTS Toolkit, ensuring privacy by processing data locally.
- It supports multiple interaction modes, including text and voice inputs/outputs, with a default mode of voice input and audio/text output.
- Installation requires Python 3.10+ and specific dependencies, with customization available through a JSON configuration file.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40744293)

- A local voice assistant using Ollama, transformers, and Coqui TTS toolkit is discussed, with Coqui's XTTSv2 praised for its ~500ms response latency in streaming mode.
- Audio-to-audio models like GPT-4o are considered the future of conversational AI, with promising approaches from ultravox.ai and tincans.ai.
- Open source orchestration for TTS (Text-to-Speech), ASR (Automatic Speech Recognition), and LLM (Large Language Models) is available at bolna-ai/bolna, with the Wyoming Protocol noted for home assistant integration.

## [Testing Generative AI for Circuit Board Design](https://blog.jitx.com/jitx-corporate-blog/testing-generative-ai-for-circuit-board-design)

- Generative AI models (GPT-4o, Claude 3 Opus, Gemini 1.5) were tested for their utility in circuit board design, showing strengths in data extraction and code writing but weaknesses in nuanced design tasks.
- Claude 3 Opus excelled in explaining basic concepts, while Gemini 1.5 was most effective in parsing datasheets and creating accurate pin tables and footprints.
- All models struggled with specific part recommendations and detailed circuit design tasks, indicating that LLMs are better suited to assist human experts rather than act as standalone designers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40751020)

- Generative AI, specifically zero-shot Large Language Models (LLMs), struggle with complex tasks like circuit board design, highlighting their limitations in specialized domains.
- Fine-tuning LLMs on specific tasks, such as netlist creation, could improve their performance, but a fundamental shift in AI structure might be necessary for more complex tasks.
- Diffusion-based generative structures and other AI models like evolutionary or reinforcement learning might be better suited for intricate tasks in electrical engineering (EE).

## [Generating audio for video](https://deepmind.google/discover/blog/generating-audio-for-video/)

- Video-to-audio (V2A) technology generates synchronized soundtracks from video pixels and text prompts, enabling the creation of dramatic scores, realistic sound effects, or dialogue for various video types.
- V2A employs a diffusion-based approach, encoding video input and refining audio from random noise to produce realistic audio waveforms, with ongoing research focusing on improving video quality artifacts and lip synchronization.
- The development team emphasizes responsible AI practices, using the SynthID toolkit for watermarking AI-generated content and conducting rigorous safety assessments before public release.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40744098)

- DeepMind has introduced a new AI tool for generating audio for videos, adding to the growing list of AI generative tools.
- The community is expressing mixed feelings, with some finding it hard to keep up with the rapid advancements and others discussing the potential impacts on content creation and storage capacities.
- There is a notable interest in how AI-generated content could influence advertising, politics, and the future of content creation, with suggestions for AI-specific platforms and tools.

## [Spending 3 months investigating a 7-year old bug and fixing it in 1 line of code](https://lemmy.world/post/16763534)

- A developer spent three months investigating a bug that had been unresolved for seven years.
- The bug was ultimately fixed with just one line of code, highlighting the sometimes elusive nature of software issues.
- This post underscores the persistence required in software development and the potential simplicity of solutions to long-standing problems.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40749624)

- A 7-year-old bug was fixed with a single line of code after a 3-month investigation, highlighting the complexity and unpredictability of debugging.
- The discovery was made by identifying a 16-bit modulo operation in the audio processing code, leveraging previous experience with 8-bit processors.
- The post emphasizes the emotional journey and satisfaction of solving long-standing technical issues, resonating with both junior and senior engineers.

## [A Rant about Front-end Development](https://blog.frankmtaylor.com/2024/06/20/a-rant-about-front-end-development/)

- The author, a seasoned front-end developer, expresses frustration with the complexity introduced by certain choices in front-end development.
- Emphasizes the importance of content over frameworks like React, advocating for semantic, SEO-ready, and accessible HTML.
- Criticizes the overuse of JavaScript and complex tools, suggesting a focus on simplicity and proper use of CSS and server-side rendering technologies.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40746173)

- A blog post criticized modern front-end development practices, likening them to fast food—functional but lacking depth.
- The author advocated for server-side rendering (SSR) and minimal JavaScript (JS) use, highlighting tools like HTMX and Alpine JS.
- The discussion revealed a divide between proponents of traditional web development (simpler HTML and CSS) and those favoring modern JS frameworks like React for dynamic sites.

## [Bomb Jack display hardware](https://github.com/martinpiper/BombJack/blob/master/README.md)

- The Bomb Jack Display Hardware project, now in version 2.0, started as a schematic for Bomb Jack arcade hardware and includes features like addressable RAM, extra display blanking, and full-screen height sprites.
- The project uses TTL (Transistor-Transistor Logic) to explore graphical enhancements for 8-bit computers, focusing on teaching low-level discrete logic rather than using CPLD (Complex Programmable Logic Device) or FPGA (Field-Programmable Gate Array).
- The hardware design includes six PCB (Printed Circuit Board) layouts for various functions and uses Proteus for simulation and PCBWay for manufacturing, aiming for cost efficiency and customization.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40745830)

- A new project aims to replace the Bomb Jack arcade hardware with a modern equivalent, expanding beyond its initial scope.
- The project, distinct from MAME (Multiple Arcade Machine Emulator), is a hardware solution that has even helped identify a bug in MAME.
- The hardware features advanced capabilities like multiple layers, layer priority, multiple palettes, scaled sprites, and more, pushing the boundaries of period-correct components.

## [Tesla owners file class-action alleging repair, parts monopoly](https://driving.ca/auto-news/industry/tesla-class-action-lawsuite-parts-repairs-monopoly)

- Tesla owners have filed a class-action lawsuit accusing the company of monopolizing the repair and parts market.
- The lawsuit claims that Tesla's practices force owners to use Tesla's own services and parts, potentially leading to higher costs and limited options.
- This legal action highlights ongoing concerns about the right to repair and the availability of third-party services in the electric vehicle industry.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40744847)

- Tesla owners have initiated a class-action lawsuit, accusing the company of monopolizing repairs and parts, leading to long wait times for necessary components.
- The lawsuit argues that Tesla prioritizes new car production over maintaining an adequate stock of parts for repairs, causing significant delays for some owners.
- Arbitration clauses in Tesla's contracts could complicate the lawsuit, potentially hindering its progress through the legal system.

## [From Infocom to 80 Days: An oral history of text games and interactive fiction](https://arstechnica.com/gaming/2024/06/from-infocom-to-80-days-an-oral-history-of-text-games-and-interactive-fiction/)

- "Go North — From Infocom to 80 Days" is an oral history exploring 50 years of interactive fiction (IF), from early text adventures to modern works.
- The IF community is known for its open-source ethos and individuality, including both players and creators.
- The genre began in the 1970s with games like Adventure by Will Crowther and evolved as home computers became more accessible, reaching a wider audience.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40749426)

- "From Infocom to 80 Days: An oral history of text games and interactive fiction" explores the evolution of text-based games, highlighting classics and modern titles like "80 Days" for their storytelling and replayability.
- The discussion includes resources such as the Interactive Fiction Database (IFDB) and the book "50 Years of Text Games," and notes the ink language by Inkle Studios for its ease in creating branching narratives.
- Challenges of early text parsers are mentioned, along with the potential of modern advancements like Large Language Models (LLMs) to enhance interactive fiction.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Gilead shot prevents all HIV cases in trial" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Gilead%20shot%20prevents%20all%20HIV%20cases%20in%20trial&subheading=Friday%2C%20June%2021%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
