---
slug: '/2024/06/24'
---

# 2024-06-24

## [Microfeatures I love in blogs and personal websites](https://danilafe.com/blog/blog_microfeatures/)

- The post highlights various microfeatures that can enhance user experience on blogs and personal websites, inspired by Hillel Wayne's article on programming languages.
- Key features include sidenotes, tables of contents, linkable headings, series grouping, dialogues, code blocks with origin and clickable links, markers for external links, link previews, and RSS feeds.
- These features, while not essential, improve navigation, engagement, and accessibility, making the reading experience more enjoyable and efficient.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40774277)

- The discussion revolves around microfeatures in blogs and personal websites, highlighting both positive and negative aspects.
- Key points of contention include the use of progress bars, link decorations, and preview popups, with some users finding them distracting and unnecessary.
- The conversation also touches on the shrinking of native scrollbars and the potential benefits of alternative navigation aids like tables of contents and always-visible indices.

## [Apple found in breach of EU competition rules](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/article/2024/jun/24/apple-breach-eu-competition-rules-digital-markets-act)

- The European Commission has found Apple in violation of new EU laws aimed at protecting smaller competitors and enabling consumers to find cheaper apps.
- Apple has 12 months to comply with the regulations or face fines up to 10% of its global revenues, following an investigation initiated in March.
- This marks the third non-compliance investigation into Apple since the Digital Markets Act (DMA) was enacted, focusing on Apple's fees and practices that restrict developers from directing consumers to alternative purchasing options.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40773883)

- Apple has been found in violation of EU competition rules, sparking calls for similar actions in the US.
- Critics argue that Apple's control over app publishing and developer fees stifles competition, with particular concern over anti-steering rules that prevent developers from informing users about cheaper payment options outside the App Store.
- Apple awaits an EU Court ruling on the constitutionality of provisions requiring free iOS APIs for developers, amid claims that its compliance with EU laws is superficial.

## [US prosecutors recommend Justice Department criminally charge Boeing](https://www.voanews.com/a/us-prosecutors-recommend-justice-department-criminally-charge-boeing-as-deadline-looms/7667194.html)

- U.S. prosecutors suggest criminal charges against Boeing for allegedly breaching a 2021 settlement concerning two fatal 737 MAX crashes.
- The Justice Department has until July 7 to decide on prosecution, with Boeing disputing the violation claims and ongoing discussions.
- Criminal charges could exacerbate Boeing's crisis, impacting its U.S. government contracts, while victims' families advocate for a $25 billion fine and prosecution.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40773151)

- US prosecutors are recommending criminal charges against Boeing, with some suggesting drastic measures like expropriating 51% of the company, firing top executives, and imposing fines.
- Critics argue that shareholders lack the power to enforce proper oversight, and institutional investors often fail to monitor corporate behavior effectively.
- The Boeing case underscores broader systemic issues in corporate governance and regulatory oversight.

## [Cosmopolitan v3.5.0](https://github.com/jart/cosmopolitan/releases/tag/3.5.0)

- Cosmopolitan Libc v3.5.0 has been released, making C a build-once run-anywhere language without needing an interpreter or virtual machine.
- Key improvements include a higher quality memory map implementation, a memory manager rewrite, and updated Lua to 5.4.6.
- New C++ STL features introduced, such as ctl::string small-string optimization, ctl::set, ctl::map, and ctl::unique_ptr, along with various bug fixes and optimizations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40773139)

- Cosmopolitan v3.5.0 has been released, generating significant interest due to its ability to create highly portable executables that run across multiple operating systems and architectures without modification.
- The new version boasts improved performance, with claims that Cosmopolitan Libc is twice as fast as Musl Libc for many command-line interface (CLI) programs and offers robust thread support, making it suitable for high-performance AI software.
- The release includes support for WebAssembly (WASM) and features like the "Actually Portable Executable" (APE) header, which enhances cross-platform compatibility, including support for Android.

## [Apple's secret silicon fab next to thousands of homes](https://www.ashleygjovik.com/3250scott.html)

- In 2015, Apple began secret semiconductor fabrication at a facility in Santa Clara, California, which vented toxic gases affecting nearby residents.
- Ashley M. Gjovik, a resident in 2020, suffered severe health issues and discovered the factory's exhaust in her home and body, leading to multiple complaints and investigations.
- Apple faced violations for hazardous waste and safety issues, with ongoing inspections and investigations into the public nuisance and ultrahazardous activities causing significant harm to Gjovik and the environment.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40773136)

## [LINQPad – The .NET Programmer's Playground](https://www.linqpad.net/)

- LINQPad is a versatile tool for .NET programmers to instantly test C#/F#/VB snippets, query databases, and automate scripts with REPL (Read-Eval-Print Loop) benefits.
- It supports C# 12 and .NET 8, allowing interactive database queries in LINQ or SQL, and includes drivers for multiple databases like SQL Server, Oracle, and MySQL.
- LINQPad offers advanced features such as AI autocompletion, integrated debugging, and rich output formatting, making it a powerful tool for rapid coding and dynamic development.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40770171)

- LINQPad is highly regarded for its ease of use, particularly among .NET developers, for scripting, debugging, and running LINQ queries.
- Users appreciate its features like SQL Server database connections but express frustration over its Windows exclusivity and cost.
- Alternatives mentioned include winmerge, NetPad, dotnetfiddle.net, and RoslynPad, with some users desiring cross-platform support and integration into Visual Studio.

## [Car dealerships revert to pens and paper after cyberattacks on software provider](https://apnews.com/article/car-dealerships-cyberattack-cdk-outage-3f7c81f6be0e212172b33cdc9f49feba)

- Car dealerships in North America experienced significant disruptions due to cyberattacks on CDK Global, a key software provider for auto dealers.
- The attacks on June 19, 2024, caused ongoing outages, leading to delays and manual processing at affected dealerships.
- Major auto companies like Stellantis, Ford, and BMW confirmed the impact but are continuing operations using alternative methods, while CDK Global works on restoring its systems.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40776951)

- Car dealerships are reverting to using pens and paper after cyberattacks on their software provider, CDK Global, disrupting their digital operations.
- The cyberattacks have severely impacted parts and service departments more than new vehicle sales, as their inventory information is stored in the compromised CDK system.
- The incident highlights the vulnerability of industries heavily reliant on a single software provider, emphasizing the need for better cybersecurity measures and possibly more diversified software solutions.

## [US EPA Enforcement and Compliance on Apple Fabrication](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fo/312oqvretg7yyhfx0ohx4/AGZduVXs0_1geqIyi0NA9nE?e=1&preview=2024_04_30_RCRA_Insp_Report_REPORT_Apple_3250_Scott_Redacted.pdf&rlkey=3aa2tw15ek3trqlbdh7pw9erh&st=4b364mkx&dl=0)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40772224)

- The US EPA is investigating Apple for potential environmental violations at a Santa Clara facility, focusing on improper handling and release of hazardous waste.
- Former Apple employee Ashley Gjovik has raised concerns about personal health impacts from the facility's emissions, though her claims are met with skepticism.
- The case underscores the complexities of industrial regulation and corporate responsibility, drawing comparisons to other industrial incidents and concerns about regulatory enforcement.

## [Traffic noise hurts children's brains](https://www.bbc.com/future/article/20240621-how-traffic-noise-pollution-harms-childrens-health-and-development)

- Children are highly vulnerable to traffic noise pollution, which negatively impacts their health and learning abilities.
- Studies, including a 1975 study by Arline Bronzaft and a 2022 study in Barcelona, show that noise pollution can impair reading performance, working memory, and attention span in children.
- Cities like Buenos Aires and Barcelona are implementing measures such as improving green spaces and reducing speed limits to combat noise pollution, with initiatives like Barcelona's "superblocks" prioritizing pedestrians and green spaces over cars.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40769880)

- A study reveals that road traffic noise at schools is linked to slower development of children's working memory and attention.
- Potential solutions include reducing traffic around schools and soundproofing classrooms to mitigate the impact of environmental noise.
- The discussion also addresses broader issues such as car dependency, noise pollution, and the advantages of quieter, walkable urban environments.

## [Microsoft Account to local account conversion guide erased from Windows 11 guide](https://www.tomshardware.com/software/windows/microsoft-account-to-local-account-conversion-guide-erased-from-official-windows-11-guide-instructions-redacted-earlier-this-week)

- Microsoft has removed the guide for converting a Microsoft Account to a local account from its Windows 11 support page, effective June 17, 2024.
- Users can still switch to a local account manually via Settings > Accounts > Your info and selecting "Sign in with a local account instead."
- This action highlights Microsoft's push for users to adopt Microsoft Accounts, emphasizing benefits like service integration and enhanced security, aligning with strategies from Google and Apple.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40775301)

- Microsoft has removed the guide for converting a Microsoft Account to a local account from the Windows 11 documentation.
- Users are discussing alternatives like using the LTSC (Long-Term Servicing Channel) version of Windows 11, which is typically an enterprise product but can be activated through GitHub scripts.
- The conversation highlights the ongoing debate about the ethics and legality of using activation scripts and the trade-offs between Windows and Linux for gaming and general computing.

## [CentOS Linux 7 will reach EOL on Sunday](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/linux/centos-linux-eol)

- CentOS Linux 7 will reach End of Life (EOL) on June 30, 2024, meaning it will no longer receive updates or security patches after this date.
- Red Hat offers several migration tools and services, such as Convert2RHEL, Red Hat Insights, and Red Hat Consulting, to assist users in transitioning to Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL).
- RHEL provides a similar user experience to CentOS, with additional features, support, and security, and is compatible with major cloud providers and hybrid cloud deployments.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40773749)

- CentOS Linux 7 will reach End of Life (EOL) on Sunday, prompting users to seek alternatives.
- SUSE offers a solution by switching CentOS 7 update repositories to SUSE’s, avoiding disruptive migrations, while Oracle Linux is another option, though some users are cautious about it.
- Many users are transitioning to alternatives like Rocky Linux, AlmaLinux, or Debian, with some facing challenges in upgrading and considering containers to mitigate OS changes.

## [Deriving Dependently-Typed OOP from First Principles](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06707)

- The paper addresses the expression problem, which involves the challenge of extending types with new producers and consumers in programming.
- It explores dependently-typed object-oriented programming by deriving it from first principles using duality, providing a dependently typed calculus with dual language fragments.
- This extended version includes additional appendices and will be part of the PACMPL issue for OOPSLA 2024, demonstrating the significance and ongoing research in this area.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40769867)

- The paper "Deriving Dependently-Typed OOP from First Principles" has sparked significant discussion, receiving 141 points on arxiv.org.
- Key discussions include the essence of Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) versus Functional Programming (FP), with some users noting the paper's examples seem more functional than object-oriented.
- Various resources and references were shared, including William Cook’s paper on data abstraction, Noel Welsh's talk on FP and OO, and the book "A Little Java, A Few Patterns" for understanding the connections between functional and OO programming.

## [Convert an existing wired doorbell into a smart doorbell using ESPHome](https://frenck.dev/diy-smart-doorbell-for-just-2-dollar/)

- The article explains how to convert a traditional doorbell into a smart, WiFi-enabled doorbell for approximately $2, without requiring soldering or electronics expertise.
- The project uses an ESP-01S chip and a relay module, powered by an old phone charger, and integrates with Home Assistant and ESPHome for various automations.
- Detailed steps are provided for modifying the ESP-01S chip, flashing firmware, wiring, and integrating with Home Assistant, showcasing the ease and affordability of DIY smart home projects.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40774270)

- The article discusses converting a wired doorbell into a smart doorbell using ESPHome, highlighting both potential failure points and benefits like remote notifications and home automation integration.
- Examples include using an Amcrest AD110 doorbell for local-only video streaming and custom notifications, and suggestions for using Zigbee or Z-Wave buttons for simplicity.
- The main aim is to demonstrate the ease and enjoyment of DIY smart home projects with ESPHome and Home Assistant.

## [EPA releases report on Apple's hazardous waste violations in urban silicon fab](https://mastodon.social/@ashleygjovik/112668309100333232/?)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40773957)

- The EPA report highlights Apple's hazardous waste violations, particularly the illegal venting of hazardous chemicals at an urban silicon fab.
- Apple failed to account for all waste passing through carbon filters, making it impossible to assess the filters' "breakthrough time," potentially leading to environmental leaks since December 2020.
- The discussion on this topic has been moved to a new thread on Hacker News, indicating significant community interest.

## [The economics of the Birkin handbag](https://www.wsj.com/style/fashion/hermes-birkin-bag-investment-031c215c)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40770358)

- The Birkin handbag market thrives on exclusivity and high demand, with buyers given 24 hours to purchase, creating a lottery-like excitement.
- Sales are restricted to loyal customers who spend significantly on other items, maintaining the bag's status as a symbol and investment.
- Similar to the sneaker market, this model of limited availability and personalized service ensures the luxury market's success through scarcity and prestige, attracting wealthy consumers.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Microfeatures I love in blogs and personal websites" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Microfeatures%20I%20love%20in%20blogs%20and%20personal%20websites&subheading=Monday%2C%20June%2024%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
