---
slug: '/2024/06/25'
---

# 2024-06-25

## [Julian Assange has reached a plea deal with the U.S., allowing him to go free](https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/justice-department/julian-assange-reached-plea-deal-us-allowing-go-free-rcna158695)

- Julian Assange, WikiLeaks founder, has been released from a British prison after five years and is heading to the Northern Mariana Islands to plead guilty to a conspiracy charge as part of a U.S. plea deal.
- The plea deal, which includes a 62-month sentence with credit for time served, will conclude the legal battle over the publication of classified documents, allowing Assange to be free upon approval.
- Assange is expected to return to Australia after the proceedings, where his wife Stella and their two children are awaiting his return.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40782130)

- Julian Assange has reached a plea deal with the U.S., resulting in his release from Belmarsh prison after 1901 days.
- This outcome was achieved through a global campaign and negotiations with the U.S. Department of Justice, leading to his departure from the UK.
- Assange, known for WikiLeaks' publications exposing government corruption, will soon reunite with his family.

## [Local First, Forever](https://tonsky.me/blog/crdt-filesync/)

- Local-first software prioritizes keeping data on the user's device while occasionally syncing online, offering control and ownership over data.
- Challenges include reliance on online components for syncing, which can be mitigated by using widely available cloud services like Dropbox, iCloud Drive, OneDrive, Google Drive, or Syncthing.
- Conflict-free data merging can be achieved using CRDTs (Conflict-free Replicated Data Types), with practical implementations demonstrated using tools like Automerge on GitHub.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40786425)

- The discussion centers around the concept of "local-first" software, which prioritizes storing data locally on users' devices rather than relying on cloud services.
- A key point is the challenge of monetizing local-first applications, as traditional subscription models are less applicable, and developers must find alternative revenue streams.
- The conversation highlights the importance of self-hosting backend sync servers to ensure long-term data accessibility and control, with examples of current projects and potential solutions.

## [Microsoft removes documentation for switching to a local account in Windows 11](https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2024/06/microsoft-removes-documentation-for-switching-to-a-local-account-in-windows-11/)

- Microsoft has removed documentation for switching to a local account in Windows 11, but most workarounds still function.
- Windows 11 Home and Pro editions require a Microsoft account during setup, offering benefits for services like OneDrive or Microsoft 365.
- Methods to use a local account include pressing Shift+F10 during setup, using the Rufus tool, or setting up with a Microsoft account and signing out afterward.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40786644)

- Microsoft has removed the documentation for switching to a local account in Windows 11, causing user frustration and concerns over privacy and bloatware.
- Users are comparing Windows 11 to intrusive, ad-filled systems and some are switching to alternatives like Linux or macOS.
- Despite attempts to use local accounts, users report issues and settings being reset after updates, reflecting broader dissatisfaction with Microsoft's direction.

## [Round Rects Are Everywhere](https://www.folklore.org/Round_Rects_Are_Everywhere.html)

- Steve Jobs inspired Bill Atkinson to implement rounded rectangles in QuickDraw by highlighting their common presence in everyday objects.
- Initially skeptical, Bill Atkinson quickly developed a new demo that drew rounded rectangles nearly as fast as plain ones, leading to the "RoundRects" feature becoming a key part of the Macintosh user interface.
- This story underscores the importance of user interface design and the innovative spirit at Apple during the development of the original Macintosh.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40781838)

- Discussion centers around the evolution of Windows UI design, particularly the use of rounded versus square corners in different versions.
- Many users express nostalgia for older Windows versions like Windows 2000 and Windows Server 2003, citing their simplicity and consistency.
- The conversation extends to the practical and aesthetic reasons for rounded corners in various contexts, including architecture and product design.

## [Windows 11 is now enabling OneDrive folder backup without asking permission](https://www.neowin.net/news/windows-11-is-now-automatically-enabling-onedrive-folder-backup-without-asking-permission/)

- Forza Horizon 4 will be removed from stores on December 14, meaning it will no longer be available for purchase.
- The game's playlists will end on August 22, indicating a cessation of new content updates or events.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40781048)

- Windows 11 now automatically enables OneDrive folder backup without user consent, causing issues such as slow internet speeds and altered directory paths.
- Users are finding it challenging to reverse these changes, leading to frustration and a growing distrust in Microsoft, with some considering alternatives like Linux or macOS.
- The automatic backup raises privacy concerns, particularly for sensitive data, prompting users to report these practices to authorities like the FTC.

## [The case for not sanitising fairy tales](https://www.plough.com/en/topics/culture/literature/the-case-for-not-sanitizing-fairy-tales)

- Fairy tales teach children about the existence of evil, violence, and danger, which are important lessons for understanding life's harsh realities.
- Haley Stewart argues that sanitizing these stories, as seen in modern adaptations like Disney's versions, deprives children of the opportunity to process their fears and understand that goodness can prevail.
- Stewart advocates for preserving the original, unaltered versions of fairy tales to help children develop resilience and navigate the complexities of the world.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40779785)

- The debate on sanitizing fairy tales involves balancing contemporary values with preserving original messages and cultural relevance.
- Disney's adaptations, such as "The Little Mermaid," are often cited as examples of modernizing older stories, sparking discussions on whether these changes are necessary or constitute censorship.
- Proponents argue that evolving stories can make them more accessible and impactful for modern audiences, while critics worry about diluting their original intent and cultural significance.

## [SIMD-accelerated computer vision on a $2 microcontroller](https://shraiwi.github.io/read.html?md=blog/simd-fast-esp32s3.md)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40783598)

- A $2 microcontroller, such as the ESP32-S3, can now perform SIMD-accelerated (Single Instruction, Multiple Data) computer vision, significantly enhancing performance for real-time tasks.
- Edge Impulse provides tools to optimize deep learning and computer vision models for microcontrollers, allowing users to upload models and receive optimized C++ libraries.
- Discussions also cover the potential of affordable TPUs (Tensor Processing Units), FPGA (Field-Programmable Gate Array) boards, and the use of the Rust programming language for ESP32 development.

## [iDOS 3 Rejected by Apple](https://litchie.com/2024/04/new-hope)

- Apple has blacklisted iDOS 2, forcing the developer to resubmit it as "iDOS 3," which was initially rejected for being too similar to its predecessor and for "Design spam."
- Despite the developer's explanations, Apple has not resolved the issue, and the app remains under review, with Apple providing vague guidelines on what constitutes a retro game console.
- The developer is awaiting further updates and hopes to justify the version bump to users soon.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40782541)

- Apple rejected the iDOS 3 app, claiming it is not a retro game console, and provided unclear guidance for necessary changes.
- This incident underscores ongoing criticisms of Apple's app review process, which many developers find arbitrary and inconsistent.
- The Digital Markets Act (DMA) could potentially address these issues in the future, but it is not an immediate solution.

## [From 0/10 to 8/10: Microsoft Puts Repair Front and Center](https://www.ifixit.com/News/96998/from-0-10-to-8-10-microsoft-puts-repair-front-and-center)

- Microsoft has greatly enhanced the repairability of its Surface devices, with the Surface Laptop 7 improving from a 0/10 to an 8/10.
- Key features contributing to this improvement include QR codes for service manuals and Wayfinder symbols for easier disassembly.
- The Surface Pro 11 also shows significant repairability advancements, with accessible components and no glue used, reflecting Microsoft's commitment influenced by Right to Repair advocacy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40783229)

- Microsoft has enhanced the repairability of its Surface devices, achieving an 8/10 score from iFixit, likely influenced by EU regulations.
- Discussions on Hacker News express skepticism about Microsoft's motives, suggesting regulatory pressure rather than genuine goodwill.
- The conversation also addresses broader topics such as corporate behavior, market regulations, and the impact of EU legislation on global standards.

## [Microsoft charged with EU antitrust violations for bundling Teams](https://www.theverge.com/2024/6/25/24185467/microsoft-teams-eu-bundling-antitrust-violations)

- Microsoft has been charged by EU regulators with antitrust violations for bundling its Teams chat app with Office 365 and Microsoft 365 subscriptions.
- This is the first such charge in 15 years, following previous cases involving Windows Media Player and Internet Explorer, and stems from a 2020 complaint by Slack.
- If found guilty, Microsoft could face a fine of up to 10% of its annual worldwide turnover and be required to change its software products.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40787842)

- Microsoft is facing antitrust charges from the European Union for bundling its Teams software with other products.
- The charges suggest that this bundling practice may be anti-competitive, potentially harming other companies in the market.
- This development is significant as it highlights ongoing regulatory scrutiny of major tech companies' business practices in the EU.

## [MTV news website goes dark, archives pulled offline](https://variety.com/2024/digital/news/mtv-news-website-archives-pulled-offline-1236047163/)

- MTV has taken down over two decades of content from MTVNews.com, redirecting visitors to the main MTV site, including significant music journalism and hip-hop archives.
- The shutdown follows the closure of MTV News in 2023 due to financial issues at parent company Paramount Global, with former staffers expressing frustration on social media.
- Paramount Global has also removed content from CMT’s site, and while some suggest using internet archiving services, older articles may not be available.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40782101)

- MTV News website has gone offline, and its archives have been pulled, raising concerns about the preservation of digital journalism and cultural history.
- The incident highlights the broader issue of archival rights for journalists, emphasizing the need for permanent credit and access to their work, similar to how major newspapers offer reprints and digital archives.
- The discussion underscores the importance of robust and accessible digital archives, with some suggesting support for organizations like the Internet Archive to ensure the durability of stored data globally.

## [Researchers invent 100% biodegradable 'barley plastic'](https://phys.org/news/2024-06-biodegradable-barley-plastic.html)

- Researchers at the University of Copenhagen have created a 100% biodegradable plastic from barley starch and sugarbeet waste, which decomposes completely within two months.
- This new bioplastic, a biocomposite of amylose and nanocellulose, is strong, water-resistant, and suitable for applications like food packaging, unlike current bioplastics that need industrial composting.
- The team is patenting the material and collaborating with companies to develop prototypes, aiming for market availability within one to five years.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40783777)

- Researchers have created a 100% biodegradable plastic from barley, aiming to replace traditional plastics that harm the environment.
- Concerns exist regarding its use in medical products and its overall durability, sparking a broader discussion on plastic waste and biodegradable alternatives.
- The debate includes the effectiveness of these alternatives and the challenges of large-scale implementation, alongside the environmental impact of reusable bags.

## [I built a JavaScript-powered flipdisc display](https://flipdisc.io/)

- Flipdiscs, an 80-year-old technology using electromagnetic pulses to flip discs between two colors, were chosen for a large interactive wall art project due to their readability, longevity, and unique sound.
- The project involved using 9 Alfazeta panels in a 3x3 grid, powered by a 24V 10A Meanwell power supply, and controlled via an Nvidia Orin Nano with various web technologies for rendering and animations.
- The team built a Node.js library for flipdisc screens and an expo app for user interaction, aiming to make flipdiscs more accessible for hobbyists and encouraging collaboration on affordable hardware.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40789672)

- A JavaScript-powered flipdisc display was created, using flip discs that can be prone to mechanical issues but are captivating when operational.
- Panels were sourced from eBay and AlfaZeta, though they can be costly, and the display's noise can attract attention in environments like Network Operations Centers (NOCs).
- The project has generated interest and discussions regarding sourcing, lifespan, and potential applications.

## [A journey into Kindle AI slop hell](https://maxread.substack.com/p/my-kindle-thinks-im-stupid-now)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40779643)

- Indie authors on Royal Road report their work being stolen, run through AI, and published on Kindle, raising concerns about plagiarism and intellectual property.
- Authors have attempted to add watermarks to their work to prevent theft, but the effectiveness of this method remains uncertain.
- The use of AI for generating cover art has angered traditional artists, who feel that authors should collaborate with human artists instead.

## [Those of you who've left the SWE world, what did you transition into?](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40780940)

- A seasoned software engineer with 13 years of experience is contemplating leaving the industry due to burnout and dissatisfaction with traditional roles.
- Currently contracting and exploring entrepreneurship, the individual is uncertain about their future if their venture fails and is considering a shift to tech sales for its earning potential.
- The post highlights a common sentiment among experienced engineers about industry fatigue and the search for more fulfilling or lucrative career paths.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40780940)

- After 13 years in software engineering, the author is transitioning away from traditional 9-5 coding jobs to explore entrepreneurship and contracting.
- The author has experience as an engineering manager and senior/staff engineer but is disillusioned with industry dynamics and seeks roles that leverage strengths in people and strategy.
- The author is considering a move into sales at a tech company and is seeking advice or stories from others who have made similar transitions.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Julian Assange has reached a plea deal with the U.S., allowing him to go free" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Julian%20Assange%20has%20reached%20a%20plea%20deal%20with%20the%20U.S.%2C%20allowing%20him%20to%20go%20free&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20June%2025%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
