---
slug: '/2024/06/26'
---

# 2024-06-26

## [Ball: A ball that lives in your dock](https://github.com/nate-parrott/ball)

- "Ball" is a small, interactive red ball that can be dragged, flicked, and bounced around your screen, providing simple entertainment.
- Inspired by Nate Heagy's OS X Dashboard widget, this version includes animations that allow the ball to move out of the dock, thanks to Wessley Roche's guidance.
- The app offers a playful experience, letting users see how many times the ball can bounce or hit the wall.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40793465)

- A GitHub project named "Ball" introduces a bouncing ball to your dock, reminiscent of nostalgic desktop toys.
- User experiences are mixed; some find it entertaining, while others encounter issues with production use and developer support.
- The project has sparked nostalgia for playful desktop utilities from the past, such as Neko, Bonzi Buddy, and various screensavers, highlighting a desire for more whimsical desktop elements in modern computing.

## [HyperCard Simulator](https://hcsimulator.com/)

- HyperCard Simulator allows users to import and run classic HyperCard stacks, a popular software from the late 1980s and early 1990s.
- The project is influenced by hypercard.org, Merveilles HyperJam, and the Internet Archive, indicating a strong community and historical interest.
- Developed by Hypervariety Custom Software, the simulator aims to preserve and simulate the functionality of original HyperCard stacks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40793924)

- HyperCard Simulator has ignited nostalgia, reminding users of HyperCard's accessibility and creativity compared to modern tools like Flash, Gamemaker, and Pico-8.
- Users suggested alternatives such as P5js, Processing, and LiveCode but noted they lack the unique charm and simplicity of HyperCard.
- HyperCard's significant influence on early programming and multimedia creation remains unmatched despite modern advancements.

## [Fixing QuickLook (2023)](https://foon.uk/fixing-quicklook/)

- After upgrading from Mojave to Ventura, QuickLook now rounds the corners of images, which is problematic for photos, game assets, and UI elements.
- The author used debugging tools and scripts to identify and disable the settings responsible for the rounded corners and border in QuickLook.
- A script was created to apply these patches to all running QuickLook processes, restoring the original functionality; the full script is available in a linked repository.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40792740)

- The article discusses issues with QuickLook in macOS, specifically how it alters item accuracy by adding borders and rounded corners, which some users find unnecessary and detrimental.
- The investigation reveals that macOS symbols are still present in production builds, making them easily modifiable, and suggests that Apple should revert the changes to QuickLook.
- The discussion includes various opinions on macOS design changes, with some users expressing dissatisfaction with the direction Apple has taken since Big Sur, particularly in terms of UI consistency and accessibility.

## [A brief introduction to interval arithmetic](https://buttondown.email/hillelwayne/archive/a-brief-introduction-to-interval-arithmetic/)

- Interval arithmetic addresses measurement inaccuracies by representing values as ranges, providing bounds for the correct number rather than a single imprecise floating point value.
- While interval arithmetic can offer more accurate results, it can also lead to overly large boundaries, making it less practical, as noted by William Kahan, the creator of the IEEE-754 standard.
- John Gustafson's universal numbers are a recent development in this field, though it's uncertain if his posit version incorporates intervals; his rivalry with Kahan adds an interesting dynamic to the discussion.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40794786)

- Interval arithmetic is used in a graphing calculator to handle formulas without solving for y, by rearranging equations and calculating result intervals for x and y ranges.
- The method involves recursively dividing ranges and performing binary searches to find tiny intervals with solutions, which are then drawn as points on the graph.
- This approach is highlighted for its application in various fields, including index analysis in databases like ClickHouse, and its potential for rigorous numerical computations.

## [One Million Checkboxes](https://onemillioncheckboxes.com/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40800869)

- "One Million Checkboxes" is a web project where users can collaboratively check and uncheck a million checkboxes, unexpectedly gaining significant popularity and causing server issues.
- The project uses a Flask server, Redis for bitset storage, WebSockets for updates, and React-Window for rendering, showcasing a mix of technologies to handle real-time interactions.
- The chaotic and collaborative nature of the project has sparked a variety of user interactions, from playful competition to technical discussions on optimizing performance and handling WebSocket connections.

## [Rabbit data breach: all r1 responses ever given can be downloaded](https://rabbitu.de/articles/security-disclosure-1)

- On May 16, 2024, the Rabbitude team discovered critical hardcoded API keys in the Rabbit codebase, posing significant security risks.
- These keys allow unauthorized access to personal information, the ability to disable R1 devices, alter responses, and replace voices, affecting services like ElevenLabs, Azure, Yelp, and Google Maps.
- Despite being aware of the issue, the Rabbit team has not invalidated the keys, highlighting serious security concerns for R1 users.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40792684)

- Rabbit, an AI startup, experienced a data breach where all R1 responses could be downloaded, leading to concerns about their IT practices and security measures.
- The company revoked the key after the breach, which broke the R1s due to not updating the server key, highlighting potential negligence in handling API keys.
- The incident has sparked discussions about the trustworthiness of AI startups, the importance of secure data handling, and the broader implications of data breaches in AI services.

## [The album art of Phil Hartmann (2022)](https://www.conorherbert.com/music/the-album-art-of-phil-hartmann)

- Before gaining fame as an actor, Phil Hartman, originally Phil Hartmann, designed album covers for West Coast rock bands.
- Hartman studied art at Santa Monica City College and California State University, creating notable covers for bands like Poco and America until 1984.
- His graphic design career ended when he joined "Saturday Night Live" in 1986, marking a transition from art to comedy and acting.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40795227)

- Phil Hartman was celebrated for his versatile talent, notably portraying Ronald Reagan on SNL and contributing to "Newsradio" and "Kiki’s Delivery Service."
- He had a diverse career, including connections to Pee-Wee Herman and creating album art for famous bands.
- Hartman's legacy endures through his memorable roles and the lasting impact of his performances.

## [Brazil's Supreme Court decriminalizes marijuana](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-06-25/brazil-supreme-court-decriminalizes-marijuana-for-personal-use)

- Brazil’s Supreme Court has decriminalized the possession of marijuana for personal use by a majority vote, removing criminal penalties but not legalizing it.
- The decision has caused tension with Congress, which may have differing views on the matter.
- The Court has yet to establish the specific quantity that differentiates personal use from dealing.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40795404)

- Brazil's Supreme Court has decriminalized marijuana, clarifying the previously vague 2006 law regarding the amount that constitutes a crime.
- The decision originated from a case where a man was convicted for possessing 3 grams of marijuana, highlighting inconsistencies in lower court judgments.
- The 2006 law allowed drug classification by Anvisa, Brazil's FDA, suggesting that a president could influence drug policy by appointing liberal officials to Anvisa.

## [Half of Workers Around the World Are Struggling with Burnout](https://www.bcg.com/press/11june2024-half-of-workers-around-the-world-struggling-with-burnout)

- A Boston Consulting Group (BCG) study reveals that 48% of workers in eight countries are experiencing burnout, based on a survey of 11,000 workers.
- The study highlights that feeling included at work can halve the likelihood of burnout, with key factors being access to resources, managerial support, psychological safety, and fair opportunities.
- Burnout rates are higher among women, LGBTQ+ individuals, people with disabilities, and deskless workers, who also report lower levels of inclusion.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40799038)

- A recent survey indicates that half of the global workforce is experiencing burnout, though the term "burnout" is often used loosely to describe a wide range of job-related frustrations and intermittent tiredness.
- The survey, conducted by Boston Consulting Group (BCG), is self-reported, which may inflate the number of people claiming burnout due to the broad interpretation of the term.
- The discussion highlights the difference between casual complaints of burnout and severe cases that require significant recovery time, emphasizing the need for a clearer definition and understanding of burnout in the workplace.

## [R2R V2 – A open source RAG engine with prod features](https://github.com/SciPhi-AI/R2R)

- R2R, an open-source RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) answer engine, has released a major update focusing on multimodal data ingestion, hybrid search, advanced RAG techniques, and automatic knowledge graph construction.
- The update addresses developer challenges with existing RAG solutions, offering improved observability, customizability, and a RESTful API for easy deployment and tuning.
- Current projects include enhancing semantic chunking, training a custom model for knowledge graph construction, and improving granular permissions and analytics, with a quickstart guide available for easy installation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40799791)

- R2R V2 is an open-source RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) engine built on Postgres and Neo4j, focusing on production features based on developer feedback.
- Key features include multimodal data ingestion, hybrid search, advanced RAG techniques, automatic knowledge graph construction, and built-in observability and customizability.
- The update addresses challenges with existing tools like Langchain, offering improved developer experience, quick deployment, and tuning, with applications ranging from B2B lead generation to research assistants.

## [If you're using Polyfill.io code on your site – remove it immediately](https://www.theregister.com/2024/06/25/polyfillio_china_crisis/)

- Polyfill.io, previously used for JavaScript polyfills, is now distributing malware after being acquired by a Chinese organization, affecting over 100,000 websites.
- Google is blocking ads on affected sites and has alerted site owners, while security firms warn of the malicious code being served.
- Popular CDN providers like Fastly and Cloudflare have created mirrors to assist sites in transitioning away from the compromised domain.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40800734)

- Polyfill.io's domain has been injecting malware into mobile devices since February, affecting numerous websites.
- Prominent sites impacted include JSTOR, Intuit, and the World Economic Forum.
- Users are advised to remove Polyfill.io code from their sites immediately to prevent further issues.

## [Google dropping continuous scroll in search results](https://searchengineland.com/google-dropping-continuous-scroll-in-search-results-443529)

- Google is discontinuing continuous scroll in search results, reverting to the classic pagination bar, starting June 25, 2024, for desktop and later for mobile.
- Continuous scroll was initially introduced in mobile search in October 2021 and on desktop in December 2022, but it did not significantly increase user satisfaction.
- This change may impact website clicks and Search Console data, as noted by Barry Schwartz, a contributing editor at Search Engine Land.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40797130)

- Google is discontinuing continuous scroll in search results, likely because most queries return fewer than 40 relevant results.
- Continuous scroll faced criticism for poor implementation, including issues with back navigation and difficulty in finding specific results.
- User dissatisfaction with Google's search quality has led some to switch to alternative search engines like DuckDuckGo.

## [Ghosts in the ROM (2012)](https://www.nycresistor.com/2012/08/21/ghosts-in-the-rom/)

- Researchers examining Apple Mac SE ROM images discovered hidden image data, revealing a distorted picture of people and a message from November 20, 1986.
- The ROM was retrieved from a discarded Macintosh SE and analyzed using a PROMdate device, confirming secret images at a specific memory address.
- The hidden images were decoded by converting the binary dump to an ELF file and disassembling it, revealing the process of drawing the bitmap on the screen through an illegal instruction trap and the Macintosh Toolbox.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40799090)

- The post discusses nostalgic Easter eggs hidden in the ROM (Read-Only Memory) of older computers, with contributions from original engineers like Terry A Davis.
- Users share personal memories of discovering these Easter eggs on various devices, such as the Apple IIci, Commodore Amiga, and Radio Shack computers.
- Links to detailed documentation and discussions about these Easter eggs are provided, highlighting the playful and creative culture of early computer engineering.

## [FICO and the Credit Bureau Cartel](https://www.thebignewsletter.com/p/inside-fico-and-the-credit-bureau)

- Mortgage lenders are facing increased costs and potential closures due to a monopoly by Experian, TransUnion, Equifax, and FICO.
- Rohit Chopra, director of the CFPB, is advocating for regulatory measures to cap prices and increase competition in the credit reporting industry.
- The CFPB is seeking public input and there are calls for antitrust investigations and legislative action to address these monopolistic practices.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40797217)

- Twenty years ago, Experian and Fair Isaac, funded by USAID, helped establish Kazakhstan's credit bureau system, which is now considered fairer and more efficient than the US system.
- Kazakhstan's government licenses credit bureaus and operates its own, promoting competitive pricing and innovation, with banks reporting to all licensed bureaus and providing raw data for score computation.
- The article contrasts this with the US system's reliance on FICO scores, highlighting inefficiencies and monopolistic practices, and suggesting that regulatory capture and outdated practices hinder progress.

## [Vigorous Exercise, Cognitive Decline, and High Blood Pressure](https://alz-journals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/alz.13887)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40796459)

- Stakeholders in the healthcare industry profit more from treating health issues than preventing them, leading to higher investments in pharmaceuticals and treatments rather than preventive measures.
- Market-based solutions, such as tax breaks for gyms and improved transportation policies, could encourage healthier lifestyles, but public policies often target populations rather than individuals, affecting their effectiveness.
- Systemic changes like better urban planning and subsidies for physical activities, along with individual motivation, are necessary to improve health outcomes, as many people struggle to maintain healthy habits due to various constraints.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Ball: A ball that lives in your dock" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Ball%3A%20A%20ball%20that%20lives%20in%20your%20dock&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20June%2026%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
