---
slug: '/2024/06/28'
---

# 2024-06-28

## [Software galaxies](https://anvaka.github.io/pm/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40817852)

- Software Galaxies visualizes software projects as dots, representing each program and its complexity, sparking discussions on its challenges and potential improvements.
- Users debate the practicality of the visualization, with some suggesting it could serve as an educational tool and others reminiscing about similar tools.
- There is interest in expanding the datasets included, such as the Linux Kernel or Java Maven repository, highlighting the project's artistic and technical achievement.

## [200 people charged in $2.7B health care fraud crackdown](https://apnews.com/article/justice-department-health-care-fraud-garland-24948b951896d0f265c29ba3fcacf858)

- U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland announced charges against nearly 200 individuals in a nationwide crackdown on health care fraud, with false claims totaling over $2.7 billion.
- The charges include a $900 million scheme in Arizona, where two wound care company owners allegedly accepted over $330 million in kickbacks for fraudulent Medicare billing, resulting in patient deaths.
- Authorities seized over $230 million in assets and charged 193 individuals, including 76 medical professionals, with other schemes involving fake addiction treatment for Native Americans and misbranded HIV drugs in Florida.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40815139)

- Authorities have charged 200 individuals in a $2.7 billion health care fraud crackdown, highlighting the scale and severity of the operation.
- Among those charged, Alexandra Gehrke and Jeffrey King were arrested at Phoenix airport with incriminating books on evading law enforcement, suggesting they were preparing to flee.
- The case underscores the importance of evidence like packed bags and specific literature in determining flight risk and influencing judicial decisions on bail and sentencing.

## [A modern 8 bit design, built using 1950s thermionic valves](https://www.valve.computer/)

- The Valve.Computer is a modern 8-bit computer using 1950s thermionic valves, first operational on May 28, 2021, and now mounted as an art installation.
- It uses 1,120 thermionic triodes configured as NOR gates, forming memory registers, an 8-bit ALU, oscillators, and relay drivers, and can run programs like PONG and a 32-bit Fibonacci sequence.
- The project, inspired by Bletchley Park, took 18 months to build and is entered for the Turner Prize, highlighting its artistic and technical merits.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40814011)

- A modern 8-bit computer built using 1950s thermionic valves has generated significant interest and discussion among tech enthusiasts.
- Users shared stories about old hardware, the differences between cold and warm boots, and the complexities of thermionic valves, highlighting both the challenges and dedication involved.
- The project was praised for its creativity, evoking nostalgia and emphasizing the importance of supportive partners in pursuing one's passions.

## [Supreme Court overturns 40-year-old "Chevron deference" doctrine](https://www.axios.com/2024/06/28/supreme-court-chevron-doctrine-ruling)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40820949)

- The Supreme Court has overturned the "Chevron deference" doctrine, ending a 40-year precedent that allowed federal agencies to interpret ambiguous laws.
- Critics argue this decision may lead to instability, as courts will now interpret ambiguous laws, potentially increasing Congress's legislative workload and affecting regulatory stability.
- The ruling is viewed as a significant shift in the balance of power among the branches of government, with Justice Kagan dissenting that agencies are better suited for interpreting laws due to their expertise.

## [Infrastructure setup and open-source scripts to train 70B model from bare metal](https://imbue.com/research/70b-infrastructure/)

- A small team successfully trained a 70 billion parameter model on their infrastructure, surpassing zero-shot GPT-4 in reasoning tasks.
- The setup involved 4,092 H100 GPUs across 511 computers, connected via a three-tier InfiniBand network, with detailed provisioning, diagnostics, and automated health checks.
- They are sharing a comprehensive guide and scripts for setting up similar infrastructure, emphasizing reproducibility, automation, and thorough testing, and are open to hiring.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40816158)

- A small team successfully trained a 70 billion parameter model from scratch, outperforming zero-shot GPT-4 on reasoning tasks.
- They utilized a high-performance cluster with over 12,000 connections, ensuring seamless operation of all components.
- The team is sharing open-source scripts and a guide for infrastructure setup as part of a three-part toolkit, which also includes sections on evaluations and hyperparameter optimization.

## [Python grapples with Apple App Store rejections](https://lwn.net/SubscriberLink/979671/4fb7c1827536d1ae/)

- An upgrade from Python 3.11 to 3.12 caused some Python apps to be rejected by Apple's app stores due to the presence of the string "itms-services" in the urllib parser, which is prohibited in sandboxed apps on macOS.
- Eric Froemling's bug report led to a discussion among Python developers about how to accommodate app store review processes, considering solutions like obfuscation and distribution-level patching.
- A consensus was reached to add a build-time option called "--with-app-store-compliance" for Python 3.13, which would remove problematic code for app store submissions, highlighting the challenges free-software projects face with opaque review processes.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40815130)

- Python apps are being rejected from the Apple App Store due to the "itms-services" URL scheme in their binaries, and Windows Defender also flags these apps when built with PyInstaller.
- Developers argue that major OS platforms are hindering small developers by requiring costly code-signing certificates, making app distribution challenging.
- Alternatives suggested include using Homebrew for Mac apps or free certificates from SignPath for Windows builds, highlighting the broader issue of security-related rejections in app distribution.

## [Frame.work laptop now available in Denmark, Finland, and Sweden](https://community.frame.work/t/now-available-in-denmark-finland-and-sweden/53690)

- DestroyaFramework has announced that their products, including the Framework Laptop 13 and 16, are now available for shipment to Denmark, Finland, and Sweden.
- The new Framework Laptop 13 with Intel Core Ultra Series 1 processors is available for pre-order, along with Danish and Swedish/Finnish keyboards.
- Keyboards for the Framework Laptop 16 will be available in late July, with email alerts for stock updates available on the product page.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40818422)

- The Frame.work laptop is now available in Denmark, Finland, and Sweden, featuring proper Danish keyboards, addressing criticisms of Nordic keyboard layouts for coding.
- Framework's modular design allows for easy upgrades and repairs, emphasizing repairability and environmental benefits, though some users note issues with battery life and webcam quality.
- Expansion to Norway is complicated by its non-EU status, impacting costs and logistics.

## [FCC rule would make carriers unlock all phones after 60 days](https://techcrunch.com/2024/06/27/fcc-rule-would-make-carriers-unlock-all-phones-after-60-days/)

- The FCC proposes a rule requiring carriers to unlock phones 60 days after purchase to simplify the process for consumers.
- FCC Chairwoman Jessica Rosenworcel announced the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) to establish clear, nationwide unlocking rules, with public feedback invited starting July 18.
- The rule aims to provide consistency and transparency, making it easier for consumers to switch carriers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40814728)

- The FCC has proposed a rule mandating carriers to unlock phones after 60 days, aiming to reduce e-waste and facilitate easier switching between carriers.
- The US is distinct in having carrier-locked phones, which gives carriers significant control over phone features and updates, unlike Europe where phones can be remotely locked for non-payment.
- The proposal has sparked debate, with some viewing carrier locks as anti-consumer, while others argue they help finance phones for individuals with poor credit.

## [Maker of RStudio launches new R and Python IDE](https://www.infoworld.com/article/3715702/maker-of-rstudio-launches-new-r-and-python-ide.html)

- Posit, formerly known as RStudio, has released a beta version of Positron, a new Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for R and Python, based on Visual Studio Code.
- Positron is available for macOS, Windows, and Linux, and is designed to be user-friendly with built-in support for R and Python, eliminating the need for additional extensions.
- The IDE includes a data and variable explorer for easy data manipulation and supports other VS Code extensions via the OpenVSX registry, though it is still in early development.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40815097)

- The maker of RStudio has launched a new integrated development environment (IDE) called Positron, which supports both R and Python.
- Despite the new release, RStudio will continue to be developed and maintained, with some R-specific features remaining exclusive to it.
- Positron aims to bridge the gap between R and Python, offering a unified environment for data analysis and package development.

## [The Death of NYC Congestion Pricing](https://www.apricitas.io/p/the-death-of-nyc-congestion-pricing)

- Governor Kathy Hochul announced an indefinite pause on NYC's congestion pricing scheme, which aimed to charge vehicles entering Lower Manhattan to fund transit projects.
- The cancellation, driven by opposition from suburban drivers and concerns about the MTA's spending efficiency, jeopardizes key infrastructure projects and funding.
- This decision underscores broader issues in American cities and infrastructure, highlighting inefficiencies, high costs, and local opposition in public transit investments.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40817079)

- NYC's congestion pricing plan, intended to reduce traffic and fund public transit, has been stalled by state politics.
- Critics cite the MTA's mismanagement and high costs as reasons against additional funding, while supporters argue it could improve traffic flow and public transit.
- The debate underscores broader urban planning and public policy issues, balancing convenience with sustainability.

## [Is Clear Air Turbulence becoming more common?](https://www.flightradar24.com/blog/is-cat-more-common/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40819784)

- Clear Air Turbulence (CAT) incidents are not showing a trend in accident statistics, as the NTSB only reports significant incidents.
- Factors such as climate change and increased air travel may contribute to more frequent CAT, but newer planes with advanced sensors and pilot reporting make it difficult to measure accurately.
- The jet stream's behavior, influenced by climate change, also affects CAT frequency, but modern planes are designed to handle turbulence, and pilots are trained to manage it.

## [What is the best code base you ever worked on?](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40818809)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40818809)

- Google's monorepo is praised for its exceptional tooling, which includes instant creation of mutable snapshots and perfectly reproducible builds on clusters.
- Features like instant code search, quick blame and symbol lookup, and extensive presubmit checks ensure high productivity and uniform code/test quality.
- The environment enforces consistent style through culture, auto-linters, and mandatory code reviews, making it a standout experience for developers.

## [New ways to catch gravitational waves](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-024-02003-6)

- The first direct detection of gravitational waves in 2015 by LIGO and Virgo observatories revolutionized physics, enabling astronomers to 'hear' cosmic events.
- Current detectors are limited to frequencies between 100–1,000 Hz, but new instruments and techniques aim to detect a broader range, from megahertz to nanohertz frequencies.
- Five new methods include Pulsar Timing Arrays, Microwave Telescopes, Atom Interferometry, Desktop Detectors, and Quantum Crystals, each targeting different frequency ranges and promising to uncover more cosmic phenomena.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40820063)

- The first generation of gravitational wave detectors failed to detect waves, discrediting Weber's 1987 claim, but current interferometers like LIGO, Virgo, and KAGRA have successfully detected them.
- Gravitational waves confirm Einstein’s general relativity, yet a quantum theory of gravity remains unresolved, with string theory and Loop Quantum Gravity offering potential but challenging explanations.
- Future projects like LISA aim to enhance detection capabilities, and public tours of LIGO facilities are available for educational purposes.

## [Parkinson's Link to Gut Bacteria Suggests Unexpected, Simple Treatment](https://www.sciencealert.com/parkinsons-link-to-gut-bacteria-suggests-unexpected-simple-treatment)

- Researchers have identified specific gut microbes linked to decreased levels of riboflavin (vitamin B2) and biotin (vitamin B7) in Parkinson's patients, suggesting B vitamin supplementation as a potential treatment.
- The study, led by Hiroshi Nishiwaki from Nagoya University, found that changes in gut bacteria affected the production of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and polyamines, crucial for a healthy intestinal mucus layer.
- The findings, published in npj Parkinson's Disease, indicate that maintaining a healthy gut microbiome and reducing environmental toxins could help protect against Parkinson's symptoms.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40818987)

- A study suggests a connection between gut bacteria and Parkinson's disease, indicating certain bacterial strains might contribute to the condition.
- Discussions have emerged about the potential benefits of supplementing with vitamins like riboflavin (B2) and biotin (B7) to alleviate symptoms.
- The study underscores the importance of gut health on neurological conditions but advises that more research is needed and current treatments should not be ignored.

## [The Rhisotope Project: Insertion of radioisotopes into live rhinoceros](https://www.wits.ac.za/news/latest-news/general-news/2024/2024-06/a-novel-way-to-save-rhinos-.html)

- The Rhisotope Project at Wits University has begun inserting low doses of radioisotopes into rhino horns to aid in detecting smuggled horns at international borders.
- This innovative approach, monitored over six months, aims to deter poaching by making rhino horns detectable and less valuable on the black market.
- The project leverages global nuclear security infrastructure and focuses on education and social upliftment, particularly empowering women and girls in rural communities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40819617)

- The Rhisotope Project aims to deter rhino poaching by inserting radioisotopes into their horns, making them detectable at borders.
- Critics argue the method is ineffective due to the slow injection process and weak enforcement of anti-ivory laws, suggesting alternatives like dyeing, toxin infusion, or lab-grown keratin.
- The project is currently in the proof-of-concept phase, with ongoing research to assess its viability and safety.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Software galaxies" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Software%20galaxies&subheading=Friday%2C%20June%2028%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
