---
slug: '/2024/06/30'
---

# 2024-06-30

## [Inside a $1 radar motion sensor](https://10maurycy10.github.io/projects/motion_sensor_hacking/)

- The RCWL-0516 microwave motion sensor is a low-cost radar module, priced under a dollar, designed for motion detection within approximately 5 meters.
- It uses the BISS0001 chip, typically for infrared motion sensing, and operates by mixing transmitted and received signals to detect motion through millivolt-level changes.
- The sensor's performance is variable, working well indoors but inconsistently outdoors, and can be modified for improved range and consistency by using a second module as a receiver.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40834349)

- A $1 radar motion sensor can detect subtle movements, such as breathing, using ESP32 boards and works through walls.
- By 2024, AI/NPU laptops with Wi-Fi 7 will integrate RF radar and on-device inference to identify human activity.
- For DIY projects, a $3 ESP chip can be combined with these sensors for cost-effective solutions, with minimal safety concerns due to the use of non-ionizing radio waves.

## [Overleaf: An open-source online real-time collaborative LaTeX editor](https://github.com/overleaf/overleaf)

- Overleaf is an open-source, real-time collaborative LaTeX editor available both as a hosted service and for local deployment.
- Overleaf Server Pro offers enhanced features for labs and workplaces, including security (SSO with LDAP or SAML) and advanced collaboration tools.
- The project uses Docker for deployment, with detailed build instructions and contributions guided by the GNU Affero General Public License, version 3.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40832930)

- Overleaf is an open-source, real-time collaborative LaTeX editor, widely used in academia for remote collaboration on papers.
- Users appreciate its ease of use, features like commenting and PDF synchronization, and Git integration, though some find Git challenging for synchronous work.
- There are requests for additional features such as Pandoc support for Markdown, highlighting areas for potential improvement.

## [Chrome is adding `window.ai` – a Gemini Nano AI model right inside the browser](https://twitter.com/rauchg/status/1806385778064564622)

- Chrome is integrating `window.ai`, a Gemini Nano AI model, directly into the browser, enhancing its AI capabilities.
- This integration is compatible with the AI Software Development Kit (SDK), facilitating easier development and implementation of AI features.
- This update signifies a significant step towards more advanced AI functionalities being natively supported in web browsers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40834600)

- Chrome is integrating `window.ai`, a Gemini Nano AI model, directly into the browser, emphasizing local on-device processing for enhanced privacy and security.
- The API is experimental and currently behind a flag, sparking discussions about its implications for privacy, security, and future web standards.
- While some see potential for enhanced web applications, others are concerned about browser compatibility and potential misuse, with some users preferring simpler browsers.

## [Drop-In SQS Replacement Based on SQLite](https://github.com/poundifdef/SmoothMQ)

- An open-source, API-compatible replacement for Amazon SQS (Simple Queue Service) has been created, written in Go and distributed as a single binary using SQLite for storage.
- The solution offers advanced features like searching, scheduling, observability, and rate limiting, and is compatible with existing SQS applications by simply changing the endpoint.
- It supports multiple protocols (AMQP, PubSub) and can be adapted to different storage backends (RocksDB, Postgres), with future plans for distributed and autoscale functionality, and aims to offer a cost-effective hosted queue system.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40837610)

- An open-source, API-compatible replacement for Amazon SQS has been developed using Go and SQLite, offering features like searching, scheduling, observability, and rate limiting without requiring app rewrites.
- The solution supports Celery, provides better message visibility than SQS, and is pluggable with potential backends like RocksDB or Postgres, capable of implementing multiple protocols.
- It is easy to deploy as a single Go binary, with future plans for distributed and autoscale functionality, and feedback is encouraged.

## [Weekend projects: getting silly with C](https://lcamtuf.substack.com/p/weekend-projects-getting-silly-with)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40835274)

- The discussion revolves around undefined behavior (UB) in the C programming language, particularly the misconception that UB can "time travel" or affect code execution retroactively.
- The C23 standard includes a footnote clarifying that UB cannot time-travel, addressing confusion caused by previous blog posts and compiler behaviors.
- The conversation also touches on various quirky and advanced C programming techniques, such as unconventional uses of switch statements and the implications of volatile keyword semantics.

## [Trilobites killed by volcanic ash](https://www.bristol.ac.uk/news/2024/june/prehistoric-pompeii.html)

- Exceptionally preserved trilobite fossils from the Cambrian period were discovered in Morocco, revealing previously unknown anatomical details.
- The fossils, preserved by volcanic ash over 500 million years ago, show four pairs of head appendages instead of the previously thought three, providing new insights into trilobite feeding mechanisms.
- High-resolution X-ray micro-tomography (XRµCT) was used to create detailed 3D models, highlighting the potential of volcanic ash deposits for uncovering well-preserved fossils.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40833645)

- Palaeontologists have identified over 20,000 species of trilobites, with sizes ranging from less than two millimeters to over 90 centimeters.
- The website trilobites.info is praised for its simple, information-rich design reminiscent of early internet sites, focusing on content rather than modern web design trends.
- The discovery of well-preserved 'Pompei' trilobites, which are not flattened or deformed, provides significant insights into the ancient past, showcasing every leg arranged as it was in life.

## [OpenDNS Suspends Service in France Due to Canal+ Piracy Blocking Order](https://torrentfreak.com/opendns-suspends-service-in-france-due-to-canal-piracy-blocking-order-240629/)

- A French court has mandated Google, Cloudflare, and Cisco to block DNS records that circumvent existing pirate site blockades, following a request from Canal+.
- In response, Cisco has withdrawn its OpenDNS service from France, highlighting the impact of legal actions on internet services.
- This court order is part of Canal+'s broader anti-piracy campaign, which previously required ISPs to block over 100 pirate sports streaming sites, pushing users to third-party DNS servers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40835117)

- OpenDNS has suspended its service in France due to a court order mandating the blocking of piracy sites, igniting a debate on DNS neutrality and legal compliance.
- The compliance of major companies like Google with such orders raises concerns about setting a precedent for DNS manipulation and potential government overreach.
- Users may seek alternative DNS providers or VPNs to circumvent these restrictions, highlighting the technical challenges and implications of enforcing DNS blocks.

## [The Operational Wargame Series: The best game not in stores now (2021)](https://nodicenoglory.com/2021/06/23/the-operational-wargame-series-the-best-game-not-in-stores-now/)

- The Operational Wargame Series (OWS) is a tabletop game simulating combat from 2025 to 2050, developed by Retired Col Tim Barrick and the USMC Warfighting Lab (USMCWL).
- OWS features two modules: Assassin’s Mace (INDO-PACOM theater) and Zapad (European theater), using a hex and counter system familiar to hobby gamers.
- Currently, OWS is only available through the US Marine Corps Association for DoD offices, with no plans for commercial release, despite its potential appeal to hobby gamers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40833327)

- The Operational Wargame Series is known for its detailed and time-consuming nature, often taking days or weeks to complete turns.
- Despite digital advancements, traditional board wargames remain popular for their tactile and hands-on approach, with games like Command: Modern Operations and Rule the Waves recommended for enthusiasts.
- Military organizations continue to use manual wargaming for training purposes, highlighting the importance of comprehending all variables in strategic planning.

## [Figma defaults to train AI models on personal data](https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/17725942479127-Control-AI-features-and-content-training-settings)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40835793)

- Figma defaults to using personal data for training AI models, sparking privacy concerns among users.
- Microsoft CEO's comments suggest that powerful organizations can access internet data for AI training, raising ethical and legal questions, especially under GDPR.
- Users are advised to disable the content training toggle by August 15, 2024, to prevent their data from being used.

## [Coffee helped the Union in the Civil War](https://www.smithsonianmag.com/history/how-coffee-helped-the-union-caffeinate-their-way-victory-civil-war-180984502/)

- During the Civil War, the Union faced a significant coffee shortage, crucial for soldiers' morale and energy, with imports dropping by 40% by 1862.
- Liberia, under President Stephen Allen Benson, began exporting coffee to the Union, starting with a 6,000-pound shipment in August 1862, helping to fill the gap caused by the Union's blockade of Southern ports.
- The partnership between Liberian coffee farmers and Northern abolitionists, along with advice from Philadelphia merchant Edward Morris, boosted coffee production, making Liberian coffee vital to the Union's war effort and contributing to their success.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40834345)

- Coffee was a crucial stimulant for Union soldiers during the Civil War, significantly impacting their efforts.
- The South used other stimulants like tea, tobacco, and yaupon, but coffee's influence on the Union was particularly notable.
- The discussion underscores the complex relationship people have with caffeine, balancing its productivity benefits with potential dependency and well-being concerns.

## [Rodney Brooks on limitations of generative AI](https://techcrunch.com/2024/06/29/mit-robotics-pioneer-rodney-brooks-thinks-people-are-vastly-overestimating-generative-ai/)

- Rodney Brooks, a renowned MIT robotics pioneer, believes that generative AI is often overhyped and cannot match human capabilities.
- Brooks argues that AI should focus on specific, solvable problems rather than attempting to replicate human abilities, citing inefficiencies in using generative AI for tasks like warehouse robotics.
- He also notes that technological growth is not always exponential, using the iPod's storage capacity as an example, and suggests that while Large Language Models (LLMs) can assist with tasks like eldercare, they are not a universal solution for all AI challenges.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40835588)

- Rodney Brooks discusses the limitations of generative AI, emphasizing that while it can perform specific tasks, it cannot match the full range of human capabilities.
- Brooks suggests limiting the scope of AI applications and incorporating manual overrides for unexpected situations, predicting that the business case for exponentially scaling large language models (LLMs) is weak.
- The discussion includes analogies comparing LLMs to the iPod, suggesting that like the iPod's evolution into the iPhone, future AI advancements may integrate more complex functionalities rather than just scaling up existing capabilities.

## [Dev rejects CVE severity, makes his GitHub repo read-only](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/dev-rejects-cve-severity-makes-his-github-repo-read-only/)

- Fedor Indutny has made his popular open-source project, 'node-ip', read-only on GitHub due to a disputed CVE (Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures) report.
- This incident underscores a growing issue where open-source developers are bombarded with questionable or bogus CVE reports, causing unnecessary panic and frustration.
- The misuse of the CVE system, which is meant for ethical vulnerability reporting, is complicating the lives of developers and contributing to burnout.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40837791)

- A developer made his GitHub repository read-only after disputing the severity of a Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) report.
- The incident emphasizes that security should be considered as an emergent property of the entire software system, not just individual components.
- The situation also highlights the challenges and burnout faced by open-source maintainers, who often receive little material reward for their efforts.

## [Patagonia gave its staff 3 days to decide to relocate or quit](https://www.businessinsider.com/patagonia-cx-staff-told-to-relocate-or-leave-california-2024-6)

- Patagonia has given 90 customer-service employees three days to decide whether to relocate to one of seven US locations or leave the company, aiming to improve team culture and support business needs.
- Affected staff were informed via a town hall meeting and offered $4,000 for relocation costs and extra paid time off, with a deadline of September 30 for those unwilling to relocate.
- The decision impacts 90 of 255 customer experience (CX) staff in the US, with some employees expressing disappointment over the perceived shift away from the company's employee-centric values.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40834305)

- Patagonia has given its staff three days to decide whether to relocate or quit due to overstaffing, sparking debate on corporate ethics and employee treatment.
- Critics argue this is a disguised layoff, pointing out the generous severance but insufficient $4K relocation package, and the short decision window.
- The move is seen as potentially beneficial for H1B visa holders, but has received mixed reactions from employees and observers.

## [A live ranking of airlines by how much luggage they are losing](https://luggagelosers.com/)

- LuggageLosers.com provides a live ranking of airlines by lost luggage, updated hourly using social media mentions and historical data.
- The site tracks all major airlines, adjusting for size differences, and aims to help travelers choose airlines with better luggage handling.
- Current top airlines for lost luggage include Aer Lingus, Air India, and WestJet Airlines, with regional and country-specific data also available.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40838290)

- A live ranking of airlines by luggage loss reveals Aer Lingus has a 1 in 57 chance of losing luggage, Delta 1 in 497, and Air France 1 in 1,256.
- Nationally, India has a 1 in 97 chance, the US 1 in 497, and Japan 1 in 7,734, with variations influenced by check-in airports, airline policies, and national regulations.
- The data is sourced from social media posts, raising accuracy concerns, while the US Department of Transportation (DOT) provides more reliable data on mishandled luggage.

## [An Analog Network of Resistors Promises Machine Learning Without a Processor](https://www.hackster.io/news/an-analog-network-of-resistors-promises-machine-learning-without-a-processor-researchers-say-d9cb0655b7a0)

- Researchers at the University of Pennsylvania have created an analog machine learning network using resistors, aiming for more energy-efficient AI.
- This new approach eliminates the need for a traditional processor, utilizing a non-linear learning metamaterial based on transistors for complex computations.
- Although the current prototype consumes more power than modern digital accelerators, it shows promise in tasks like image classification and XOR operations, with potential for improved efficiency as it scales.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40836183)

- Researchers are exploring an analog network of transistors, constrained to the ohmic regime, to perform machine learning tasks without traditional processors.
- This approach could potentially offer more efficient, parallel operations compared to digital systems, though practical implementation challenges like maintaining charge on gate capacitors remain.
- The concept is generating interest due to its potential to revolutionize neural network computations by leveraging analog components, which could lead to significant advancements in energy efficiency and processing speed.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Inside a $1 radar motion sensor" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Inside%20a%20%241%20radar%20motion%20sensor&subheading=Sunday%2C%20June%2030%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
