---
slug: '/2023/10/17'
---

# 2023-10-17

## [About half of Bandcamp employees have been laid off](https://www.theverge.com/2023/10/16/23919551/bandcamp-layoffs-epic-songtradr)

- Indie music platform Bandcamp has laid off about half its workforce following its acquisition by Songtradr, a music rights marketplace, from Epic Games.
- The layoff comes after Epic Games, the previous owner, had earlier laid off 16% of its workforce, indicating continuous restructuring within the companies.
- Although Songtradr has offered positions to 50% of Bandcamp's employees, it has not yet clarified if they will recognize their union. Laid-off employees are eligible for severance pay.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37905638)

- The music platform Bandcamp has announced significant layoffs affecting approximately half of its workforce. The cause of this decision remains unspecified, with potential factors including financial aspects, an outdated user interface, and insufficient promotion for independent artists.
- The company's takeover by Songtradr and how this acquisition might influence Bandcamp's future is also under debate.
- The piece also discusses the merits and drawbacks of streaming platforms like Spotify, notably its payment structure, as well as options for alternative platforms and methods to support artists.

## [LinkedIn is laying off nearly 700 employees](https://www.npr.org/2023/10/16/1206158638/linkedin-layoffs)

- LinkedIn, a Microsoft subsidiary, is letting go of nearly 700 staff members as part of a company-wide restructuring.
- This decision comes subsequent to an earlier announcement in May about 716 layoffs, despite revenue growth and increased membership.
- The company attributes these layoffs to changes in customer behavior and slower revenue growth, reflecting a broader trend in the tech industry with similar downsizing at Amazon, Google, and Meta.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37904518)

- LinkedIn is under fire from users over concerns of irrelevant content, political pressure, and inappropriate comments, causing a disappointment in its direction and handling of these issues.
- Users expressed concerns over privacy issues, excess recruiter spam, and a perceived decrease in content quality.
- Despite the criticisms, some individuals still find the platform valuable for professional purposes like job hunting and networking.

## [Roundup herbicide ingredient connected to epidemic chronic kidney disease](https://phys.org/news/2023-10-roundup-herbicide-ingredient-epidemic-chronic.html)

- A study by Duke University researchers connects glyphosate, the active ingredient in Roundup, to significant levels of chronic kidney disease in Sri Lanka's rural communities.
- The study suggests that glyphosate can form complexes with certain trace metals in hard water, enabling it to remain for extended periods. Moreover, higher levels of harmful fluoride and vanadium were found in the communities' drinking water.
- These findings indicate a potential serious health risk from glyphosate and accentuate the need for close scrutiny on the potential implications of other contaminants.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37905251)

- The conversations involve various aspects including the potential health impacts of glyphosate (a principal component in Roundup herbicide), its contribution to agriculture, and debates over its safety and management.
- Ancillary topics discussed include the influence of genetically modified crops, worries about water pollution, corporate interest influences, and suspicions of astroturfing or viewpoints manipulation.
- The comprehensive discussions underscore the intricate trade-offs and aspects surrounding glyphosate usage, signaling the necessity for intensified research and regulation.

## [: Radical (YC W23) – Autonomous high-altitude solar aircraft](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37901120)

- Radical, co-founded by James and Cyriel, has created an autonomous, solar-powered aircraft capable of continuous flight in the stratosphere, with its prototype already testing for over 24 hours.
- The aircraft is battery-electric, utilizes solar cells attached to its wings, and is designed for diverse tasks such as imaging, sensing, and telecommunications. It operates at high altitudes to evade clouds and air traffic.
- Radical seeks to offer a cost-effective solution in the market by utilizing readily available components and swiftly iterating their design process. Their forthcoming objective is to test a full-scale aircraft next year.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37901120)

- Radical, a company with its founders' experience in aerospace engineering and Amazon Prime Air, is working on a solar-powered drone for continuous stratospheric flight.
- The drone, using off-the-shelf components for cost-effectiveness, is designed for imaging, sensing, and telecommunication purposes and has completed a 24-hour non-stop flight.
- The company is now moving towards a full-scale aircraft development with a wingspan of 110 ft, sparking discussions on its technical details, potential applications, and ethical implications related to surveillance.

## [Detroit wants to be the first big American city to tax land value](https://www.economist.com/united-states/2023/10/05/detroit-wants-to-be-the-first-big-american-city-to-tax-land-value)

- Detroit is aiming to be the first major U.S. city to implement a land value tax to combat blight and stimulate development.
- Large portions of Detroit remain plagued by vacant plots and derelict structures, despite some recovery in the city center.
- The proposed land value tax aims to incentivize landowners to either develop their properties or sell them to those who will, potentially reducing blight and promoting additional investment in the city.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37908268)

- The conversation focuses on implementing a land value tax (LVT) and its potential effects, such as discouraging property speculation and promoting development in underdeveloped areas.
- Skeptics express concerns about challenges in assessing land value and potential misuse by government authorities.
- Additional topics in the discussion include property taxes, affordable housing, densifying cities, and the potential impact on property owners.

## [MemGPT – LLMs with self-editing memory for unbounded context](https://github.com/cpacker/MemGPT)

- MemGPT is an open-source chatbot that employs self-editing memory for extended context, allowing it to interact with SQL databases and local files.
- It uses the advanced GPT-4 model and can be set up on platforms like Discord or run locally, where users can load and query data.
- The project is under active support and encourages user feedback and contributions, suggesting a responsive and evolving system.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37901902)

- The authors of MemGPT present their model, implemented with self-editing memory for unlimited context, engaging in a discussion on Hacker News and providing a Discord bot and the open-source code for experimentation.
- The discourse centers on recursive summarization in chatbots, limitations of context window in language models, techniques for memory management, use of averaging vectors for reducing length, and the future possibilities of creating continuous chatbots.
- The conversation extends to the explicit vs implicit memory management, external context, hierarchical memory systems, integration of multiple agents, with the authors actively accepting feedback to overcome context length limitations in their approach.

## [Better HTTP server routing in Go 1.22](https://eli.thegreenplace.net/2023/better-http-server-routing-in-go-122/)

- The upcoming Go 1.22 version will introduce significant enhancements to the default HTTP serving multiplexer, providing advanced pattern-matching capabilities.
- The author explains how this new multiplexer can be used, comparing its functions to third-party libraries, like gorilla/mux, implying that it can potentially replace them.
- The enhanced feature in Go 1.22 is expected to influence recommendations for router packages, bringing a positive change for the Go programming community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37898999)

- The discussion involves different topics surrounding HTTP server routing in the Go programming language, such as employing panic for multiple route matches enforcement, and contrasting arguments on compile errors versus panics.
- The conversation gets into specific projects like gorilla/mux, potential amendments to the standard library, and design choices for controllers and routes in web frameworks.
- The broader theme is about clarity, predictability, trade-offs and the advantages and drawbacks of utilizing different methodologies and technologies in web development.

## [Leaving Twitter had no effect on NPR's traffic](https://pluralistic.net/2023/10/14/freedom-of-reach/)

- The article elaborates on the issue of "enshittification" on digital platforms, pointing out its adverse effects on users, publishers, and advertisers.
- The actions of Elon Musk on Twitter are examined as an example, while advocating for regulatory methods to manage such challenges.
- The piece underscores the necessity for a "Right To Exit" regulation to augment competition and impede platforms from acquiring excessive power.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37903890)

- The discussion centers on Twitter's influence on NPR's web traffic and the subsequent worth of Twitter to journalists. It also encompasses worries regarding echo chambers and disinformation on the platform.
- There's deliberation about the dwindling cultural relevance of Twitter, its verification system's pros and cons, and Elon Musk's link to Twitter.
- There's also a debate regarding labeling NPR as state-funded media and the possible biases that could spring from governmental sponsorship.

## ["About half of Bandcamp was laid off today"](https://twitter.com/modernistwitch/status/1713962311579234428)

- The company has recently experienced a considerable layoff, affecting numerous employees.
- The layoffs have impacted various departments, including editorial and support staff.
- Among those laid off were two editorial colleagues and the majority of support staff.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37903172)

- Around 50% of the workforce at Bandcamp have been dismissed.

## [FreeTube – The Private YouTube Client](https://github.com/FreeTubeApp/FreeTube)

- FreeTube is an open-source, privacy-focused desktop YouTube player that blocks ads, avoids tracking through cookies and JavaScript, and saves subscriptions and history locally on your device.
- It includes features like two extractor APIs, subscription management, theme support, browser extension compatibility, and keyboard shortcuts. It's accessible for Windows, Mac, and Linux users.
- FreeTube invites user contributions, offers language localization support, donation options, and is licensed under the GNU Affero General Public License.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37897916)

- The discourse focuses on ad-blocking on YouTube and its consequences for content creators, discussing if it's a form of piracy or an accepted practice.
- The conversation conveys discontent with YouTube's monetization methods and the limitations of YouTube Premium. It also explores the intrusive nature of ads, privacy concerns, and debates the ethics of ad-blocking.
- The topic of general purpose computing and its potential inclusion in a country's constitution is discussed. Aspects like freedom of expression, dependence on platforms, and the use of ad-blockers are debated, with discussions also involving monetization and alternative revenue sources, including potential issues with cryptocurrency.

## [Stocketa – An app I designed, built and never launched](https://paulstamatiou.com/stocketa/)

- The author shares their journey of designing and constructing the Stocketa app, a portfolio tracker for casual investors, including the use of custom UI components and managing issues like tracking stock transactions.
- The app was praised for its functionality and design, reflecting effective use of the author's combined skills as a designer and coder.
- Ultimately, the author decided to pivot towards a different project, Rewind AI, indicating the fluidity and adaptability required in tech development.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37903489)

- The article delves into the difficulties experienced in personal project development, specifically app creation, noting the challenges encountered in obtaining clients, and the frustrations accompanying the process.
- It highlights the author's focus on quality over quantity, underlining their concerns about privacy, data management, and the high costs associated with acquiring accurate stock market data.
- The author exhibits a keen interest in resolving these issues, especially within the betting market sector.

## [C Is Not a Low-level Language (2018)](https://queue.acm.org/detail.cfm?id=3212479)

- The article reveals that the processes of enhancing C code for contemporary processors have highlighted its complexities and vulnerabilities, arguing that C is not a low-level language anymore.
- The piece discusses challenges in optimizing C code for efficiency and proposes that different programming models and processor designs could accelerate speed and simplify cache coherency protocols.
- It opines that parallel programming in a C-like language is difficult and not well-matched with modern hardware.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37897946)

- The Hacker News discussion explores different aspects of the C programming language, such as its control over memory management, integer arithmetic handling safety, and its usage in low-level system programming.
- Participants debate on C's role in hardware design, the requirement for languages that foster parallelism, and the capacity of newer languages to efficiently use modern hardware.
- Various alternative approaches are proposed, including using languages like Rust, utilizing Lisp macros, or combining assembly language with higher-level abstractions. However, there's no unanimous agreement on the best language for low-level system programming.

## [4D Gaussian Splatting for Real-Time Dynamic Scene Rendering](https://guanjunwu.github.io/4dgs/)

- Researchers have introduced a new method named 4D Gaussian Splatting (4D-GS) designed for real-time rendering of dynamic scenes.
- The 4D-GS method employs an efficient deformation field to simulate Gaussian motions and shape deformations, promoting high-resolution, real-time rendering.
- The team demonstrated the efficacy of this method with synthetic datasets, sustaining high-quality results.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37905601)

- The article discusses the use of 4D Gaussian Splatting for real-time dynamic scene rendering in virtual reality.
- Users are discussing the practical implications of Gaussian splatting in various sectors, including media production and video gaming, along with techniques to enhance rendering quality.
- Despite the conversation diverting to unrelated topics, the central discussion focuses on the technical aspects and applications of Gaussian splatting in VR technology.

## [20% of LinkedIn's recent layoffs were managers](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37907433)

- Around 20% of the employees made redundant were managers, a figure that could be higher than the typical proportion in layoffs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37907433)

- LinkedIn recently trimmed 20% of its workforce, leading to a reduction of 1 in 5 managers, sparking discussions about perceptions in the tech industry.
- There's an ongoing debate about stereotypes related to the work ethics of Indian employees in the tech industry, focusing on positive and negative experiences, communication and cultural challenges.
- Asides these, topics such as the company's reputation, difficulties faced by middle managers, a deficiency of technical expertise in managerial roles, and frustrations regarding excessive meetings, were also discussed.

## [Invidious – An open source alternative front-end to YouTube](https://invidious.io/)

- Invidious serves as an open-source alternative to YouTube, emphasizing user privacy and avoiding data tracking.
- It offers features like subscribing to channels, creating playlists, and viewing videos ad-free.
- Invidious supports multiple languages and offers a developer Application Programming Interface (API).

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37900458)

- The discussion revolves around Invidious, an open-source alternative to YouTube that permits ad-free and algorithm-free video viewing, but reportedly causes high RAM usage and system crashes.
- There are concerns about Google's dominance over personal computing devices and the legality of bypassing ads. Participants also discuss alternative revenue models for creators and supporting them without relying on ad revenue.
- Decentralized platforms such as PeerTube are noted as alternatives for circumventing ads on YouTube.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="About half of Bandcamp employees have been laid off" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=About%20half%20of%20Bandcamp%20employees%20have%20been%20laid%20off&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20October%2017%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
