---
slug: '/2023/10/31'
---

# 2023-10-31

## [I accidentally saved my company half a million dollars](https://ludic.mataroa.blog/blog/i-accidentally-saved-half-a-million-dollars/)

- The author unknowingly saved their company $500,000 in just five minutes by identifying and solving an inefficiency in their analytics platform.
- The platform was described as chaotic and inefficient with technical debt and complicated processes; it was not originally intended to generate revenue for the organization.
- Despite making a significant positive impact, the author expresses feeling unappreciated and penalized by the management.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38069710)

- The Hacker News discussion primarily focuses on workplace issues, including toxic work culture and lack of recognition for work.
- There are shared experiences, frustrations, and suggestions for improvements coming from individuals in various industries.
- Other points of discussion also touch on inefficiencies in large organizations and the high expense associated with some database management systems.

## [Apple unveils M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max](https://www.apple.com/newsroom/2023/10/apple-unveils-m3-m3-pro-and-m3-max-the-most-advanced-chips-for-a-personal-computer/)

- Apple has released its new M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max chips, specifically designed for MacBook Pro and iMac, boasting the most advanced personal computer capabilities.
- These chips offer upgrades in CPU and GPU performance, memory support, and have enhanced AI and video processing features.
- Drawing a leap in the graphics architecture, the M3 family also reaffirms Apple's devotion to sustainability and energy efficiency.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38078063)

- The discussion primarily focuses on Apple's new M3 processors, comparing their performance against previous versions and competing brands while exploring the constraints within MacBook Pro's hardware specifications.
- The conversation analyzes the monetary worth of Apple devices, weighing the decision on whether to upgrade to newer models or stay with current ones.
- Furthermore, it delves into Apple's business performance, expansion into non-hardware products, potential security issues, and the hesitation among certain users to adopt new technologies.

## [Gmail, Yahoo announce new 2024 authentication requirements for bulk senders](https://blog.google/products/gmail/gmail-security-authentication-spam-protection/)

- Gmail is introducing new requirements for bulk senders to authenticate emails, enable easy unsubscribe options, and stay within a reported Spam threshold in an effort to bolster email security and decrease undesired mail.
- Beginning from February 2024, the new changes will be enforced with provided guidance to help senders comply.
- The adjustments are backed by industry partners, highlighting the need for collaborative efforts to ensure a safe, spam-free email environment.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38074992)

- The topic of the discussions is the issue of spam emails, the difficulty in unsubscribing from mailing lists, and potential risks associated with spam emails.
- There are debates around the effectiveness of various ways to unsubscribe, the legality of spam emails, and challenges around email filters and consent issues.
- Some users express dissatisfaction with the spam filtering systems of their email service providers, highlighting the challenges faced by users and legitimate bulk senders.

## [Use YouTube to improve your English pronunciation](https://youglish.com/)

- YouGlish is an innovative tool that enhances English pronunciation by utilizing YouTube videos as practical examples.
- This platform showcases the use of English in various situations and contexts from genuine people, providing a real-world experience.
- It is multi-language supportive and boasts an advanced search feature, broadening its usability and user engagement.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38074701)

- The article highlights the difficulty non-native speakers face with English pronunciation and recommends using tools like YouTube, Youglish, and BoldVoice to enhance pronunciation skills.
- In the discussion, users debate the effectiveness of these resources and the pronunciation of particular words and place names.
- A significant point of contention in the conversation is the relative importance of correct pronunciation and accent in language learning versus grammatical accuracy.

## [Private equity is devouring the U.S. economy](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2023/10/private-equity-publicly-traded-companies/675788/)

- A growing trend of private equity firms buying public companies and converting them into private entities is causing concern as it makes a significant portion of the market less transparent to investors, regulators, and the media.
- This shift towards private equity has been driven by deregulation, leading to potentially harmful outcomes such as layoffs, reduced service quality, and bankruptcies while primarily benefiting firms' partners.
- The government has proposed amendments to increase disclosure requirements for private equity advisers, but more robust measures may be necessary to handle potential systemic risks and verify claims of higher returns.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38069197)

- The rise of private equity in the US is sparking issues like minimal access to high-growth companies for ordinary investors, fewer opportunities for entrepreneurs, and wealth concentration.
- Major points of debate include the morality and legality of certain actions, the view of housing as an investment, flaws in the 401k retirement plan, challenges for retail investors, and the adequacy of retirement savings.
- Concerns also focus on the complexities of retirement planning, trust in 401k plans, affordability of contributions, and the effects of housing and healthcare costs on retirement savings, which are often deemed inadequate.

## [The Grug Brained Developer (2022)](https://grugbrain.dev/)

- The author emphasizes the importance of simplicity in software development, avoiding unnecessary features, and implementing efficient solutions.
- Discussed are various topics like code organization, testing, Agile methodologies, tools and debuggers, type systems, DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself), SoC (Separation of Concerns), closures, logging, concurrency, optimization, APIs (Application Programming Interfaces), and parsing in the context of software development.
- The author critiques certain front-end development practices, highlighting that while it's becoming increasingly complex, it's crucial to approach new ideas cautiously, value the learning process, and not be afraid of making errors.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38076886)

- The article discusses the problem of over-engineering in software development, presenting its challenges and drawbacks, influenced by various aspects.
- It triggers the debate surrounding typed and dynamically typed languages, introduces HTMX for web development and discusses the complexity in software development.
- The author advises prioritization of simplicity over complexity, cautioning against overcomplication but recognizing the nuances and different viewpoints on the matter.

## [The costs of microservices (2020)](https://robertovitillo.com/costs-of-microservices/)

- The article weighs up the pros and cons of deploying a microservices architecture, noting increased development speed and scalability as benefits, but also flagging the complexities and challenges like communication and resource provisioning.
- A microservices architectural style brings operational obstacles; therefore, prior expertise and infrastructure are essential to address these challenges.
- The article advises starting with a monolithic structure and transitioning to microservices as needed, as a more viable approach in most cases.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38069915)

- The main topic of discussion is the use of microservices in software development, while examining the associated benefits like scalability, flexibility, and improved code quality.
- Several concerns were raised including the increased complexity, potential dependency issues, and data duplication that could arise with microservices.
- Additional points under debate include the ideal size and number of services, importance of strict adherence to architectural design, role of code reviews, alternative approaches like improving abstractions and APIs, and the need to consider organizational context when adopting microservices.

## [Google Brain founder says big tech is lying about AI danger](https://www.afr.com/technology/google-brain-founder-says-big-tech-is-lying-about-ai-human-extinction-danger-20231027-p5efnz)

- Andrew Ng, founder of Google Brain, criticizes large tech firms for spreading false narratives about AI posing existential risks to humans in an attempt to invoke stricter regulation.
- According to Ng, these companies aim to leverage harsh regulations to benefit themselves by stifling competition in the artificial intelligence market.
- Rather than imposing arduous licensing requirements, Ng advocates for transparency in the field of AI.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38072218)

- The dialogue primarily revolves around AI's regulation, with arguments for transparency, self-disclosure, and responsible AI development.
- The discussion also covers the potential risks of AI-generated content, China's influence on the AI industry, and the need for clear understanding of AI's capabilities.
- Also, debates focus on AI's societal impact, effect on job markets, and the required consumer protection, reflecting diverse viewpoints on benefits and risks of AI.

## [Raspberry Pi 5 has no hardware video encoding and only HEVC decoding](https://www.raspberrypi.com/news/introducing-raspberry-pi-5/#comment-1594055)

- The Raspberry Pi Foundation has announced the release of the Raspberry Pi 5, a single-board computer with significant upgrades including a faster processor, improved graphics capabilities, and enhanced connectivity options.
- The new Raspberry Pi OS, named 'Bookworm', accompanies the hardware release, stirring considerable discussions around system features and potential improvements.
- Users have expressed concerns about the absence of TrustZone security and USB-C support in the new Pi 5, which the Raspberry Pi staff are presently clarifying and addressing.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38068801)

- The Raspberry Pi 5 lacks hardware video encoding abilities, leading to disappointment among users who require video-related tasks. Critics voice concern over the focus on pricier new models instead of making existing ones more economical and accessible.
- The Raspberry Pi Foundation appears to prioritize industrial business users over education and hobbyists, sparking a discussion about alternative single-board computers like Beaglebone Black and Orange Pi.
- Points of contention include the use of mini HDMI ports, removed hardware support for HEVC video encoding speculated to be because of business and licensing costs, and power-performance comparisons between Raspberry Pi 5 and competitors.

## [World's most popular painter sent his followers after me because of my review](https://news.artnet.com/opinion/devon-rodriguez-parasocial-aesthetics-2380960)

- The author faced a backlash from fans of artist Devon Rodriguez following a critical review of Rodriguez's work.
- The author emphasizes the need for critical analysis, particularly for artists with substantial followers, amid the evolving attention economy in the art sphere.
- The article also challenges Rodriguez's authenticity on social media and discusses the influence of parasocial relationships on art critique.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38077684)

- The discussion explores the impact of negative reviews on an artist's career and how it dovetails with the concept of attention economy, emphasizing the influence of social media on an artist's fame and recognition.
- The notion of parasocial relationships and the superficiality of some prominent artists are addressed, along with the significance of social media presence for success, highlighting the case of a TikTok artist.
- It further discusses the evolution of communication through social media, challenges in handling criticism, backlash received by artists, and potential marketing bias towards certain artists.

## [Global CO2 Levels](https://www.co2levels.org/)

- The text describes an interactive graph that illustrates atmospheric CO2 levels from 800,000 years ago to the present.
- The graph, which is customizable, zoomable, and printable, uses data from Antarctic ice core measurements and in situ air measurements from Mauna Loa, Hawaii.
- This free tool is a project of the 2 Degrees Institute, a non-profit committed to mobilizing action against climate change.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38072267)

- The conversation encompasses various climate change topics such as the effects of sulfur dioxide on carbon dioxide levels and sulfur injection as a geo-engineering approach, both its risks and potential environmental impacts.
- Discussed are carbon capture facilities and solar farms, with a focus on their effectiveness and challenges. The dialog points to human innovation and natural sequestration of carbon as ways to battle climate change.
- The discourse also includes climate change denial, individual responsibilities towards emission reduction, and the validity of climate change data, along with reference to ice age and greenhouse gas scenarios.

## [Replacing WebRTC: real-time latency with WebTransport and WebCodecs](https://quic.video/blog/replacing-webrtc/)

- The author evaluates WebRTC, a tool for real-time media communication on the web. While effective for conferencing, it lacks in video delivery due to limited customizability and compromised quality.
- WebCodecs and WebTransport are presented as possible alternatives to WebRTC, providing increased control and versatility. However, before they can fully substitute WebRTC, improvements like enhanced congestion control and extra encoding options are required.
- The post concludes by emphasizing the lengthy and intricate procedure of substituting WebRTC with a fresh standard.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38069974)

- The Chrome WebCodecs team is focusing on enhancing real-time latency with WebTransport and WebCodecs and is exploring solutions like non-reference frames, SVC, and efficient frame slicing.
- Users have reported complications with VideoFrame's copyTo method on mobiles and have proposed features like encoding alpha and frame-by-frame seeking. Further, integrating rolling shutter and IMU information into webcams could facilitate the development of low-latency webcams.
- There's a discussion on the limitations and complexities of WebRTC, designed to mitigate website DDOS attacks, and the possibility of more effective alternatives such as a clean-slate design with focused objectives. Balancing security constraints and capabilities pose a significant challenge.

## [Android and RISC-V: What you need to know to be ready](https://opensource.googleblog.com/2023/10/android-and-risc-v-what-you-need-to-know.html)

- Google has announced the addition of support for RISC-V architecture, an open instruction set, to the Android operating system, accepting patches and outlining critical features for the architecture.
- Developers can now build, test, and run Android on RISC-V using Cuttlefish Virtual Device support, with emulators for testing applications on different device form factors expected to be publicly available by 2024.
- Google is also enhancing software availability for RISC-V cores through collaborative ventures with the RISE project and investment in RISC-V International, offering resources via GitHub and AOSP for developers interested in contributing.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38077889)

- The article engages in a discussion on the integration of the RISC-V architecture into the Android operating system, highlighting the advantages and potential challenges such a transition might offer.
- It draws parallels between Google and Apple's approaches to adopting new architectures, underscoring that a seamless transition is crucial.
- The piece stirs conversation on the competitiveness of RISC-V in the mobile space, the interest of Chinese firms in RISC-V phones, and the significance of open-source software and hardware in the tech landscape.

## [German court declares Do Not Track to be legally binding](https://www.vzbv.de/urteile/gericht-untersagt-datenschutzverstoesse-von-linkedin)

- The German Consumer Federation (vzbv) emerged victorious in a lawsuit against LinkedIn, accusing them of breaching data privacy regulations.
- The verdict states that LinkedIn must not intimate users that it ignores "Do-Not-Track" signals, permitting individuals to opt out from tracking of their browsing behavior.
- The ruling also forbids LinkedIn from auto-populating user profiles on diverse websites without consent and also restricts them from sending unsolicited emails to non-members.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38081633)

- A recent court decision in Germany has legally recognized the "Do Not Track" (DNT) signal, forbidding LinkedIn from disregarding it or setting user profiles on other platforms.
- This ruling might impact other websites and potentially eliminate the need for unique cookie notices on every website, soothing user frustrations with tracking cookies.
- The conversation around DNT involves its implementation, effectiveness, as well as the legal requirement for websites to respect the signal, leading to debates on whether DNT should be seen as a refusal of tracking.

## [Threads Software Limited gives Meta 30 days to stop using the name Threads](https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231030082004/en/Threads-Software-Limited-Gives-Meta%E2%80%99s-Instagram-30-Days-to-Desist-from-Using-the-Service-Name-Threads)

- UK-based Threads Software Limited is cautioning Meta's Instagram to stop using the name "Threads" for their service in the UK within 30 days or face potential legal action.
- Threads Software Limited, which holds the trademark and has promoted its messaging hub service globally since 2014, sees Instagram's usage as a threat to its business.
- Meta, which announced its own 'threads' social media platform in July 2023, has made unsuccessful efforts to buy the domain 'threads.app' from Threads Software Ltd.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38072495)

- Threads Software Limited, a software company, has challenged Meta, asserting a trademark infringement over the use of the name "Threads" for Meta's social media platform.
- Threads Software Limited says it trademarked the name in 2012 and has a product named Threads in operation since 2014. An attempt by Meta to purchase the domain name "threads.app" from Threads Software was unsuccessful.
- Meta debuted its "Threads" social media platform in July 2023 and subsequently removed Threads Software Limited from its Facebook platform. The result of this legal contention is undecided and heavily relies on both entities' legal tactics and resources.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="I accidentally saved my company half a million dollars" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=I%20accidentally%20saved%20my%20company%20half%20a%20million%20dollars&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20October%2031%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
