---
slug: '/2023/09/13'
---

# 2023-09-13

## [Fine-tune your own Llama 2 to replace GPT-3.5/4](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37484135)

- The author discusses the practicalities and benefits of fine-tuning open-source LLMs (Language Learning Models), which involves training pre-existing models on specific tasks leading to a more controlled model performance.
- Fine-tuning, in comparison to prompting, can result in faster responses and reduced inference costs. The author claims their fine-tuned model performs akin to GPT-4, a high performance language model, while being significantly more cost-efficient.
- The author references a tool named 'OpenPipe' which is an open-source product aimed at aiding engineers in adopting fine-tuning practices with ease.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37484135)

- The conversation focuses on the application of open-source Language Learning Models (LLMs), primarily Llama models, for diverse tasks, emphasizing their cost-effectiveness and performance compared to GPT-3.5.
- The dialogue also discusses crucial matters like data security, infrastructure requirements, alternative services, and the challenges present when using varying models.
- The significance of input/output pairs for fine-tuning datasets and the prospective advantages of purpose-built LLMs are also brought into light.

## [iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus](https://www.apple.com/newsroom/2023/09/apple-debuts-iphone-15-and-iphone-15-plus/)

- Apple has revealed the release of iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus, boasting a fresh design, upgraded cameras, advanced performance and safety features, charging options, and sustainability elements.
- Pre-orders will go live in September, available in five diverse colors, with an array of trade-in offers and added accessories for these new models.
- Alongside the phones, Apple has launched new accessories, software updates, and emphasized their environmental initiatives. Details about pricing, connectivity, and regional availability are included.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37485290)

- The discussion pivots around various aspects of the iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus, including USB-C compatibility, the swift pace of tech advancement, and a comparison of USB-C with Lightning cables.
- Views diverge on subjects such as the switch from Lightning to USB-C, the durability of Apple cables, and the pros and cons of USB-C versus Lightning.
- The potential influences of government regulation on charging port standards also emerge as a focal point of the debate, demonstrating the broad consumer perspective on technological implementations.

## [Credit card debt collection](https://www.bitsaboutmoney.com/archive/the-waste-stream-of-consumer-finance/)

- The article delves into the link between industrial waste stream and the debt collection industry, underscoring system flaws such as infringement of debtor rights and sale of debts without sufficient documentation.
- Debt collection firms leverage automated processes to collect from debtors likely to pay, using tactics like persistent calling, indicating a profit-driven industry short on moral integrity.
- Recommendations for improvements are presented, but the complexity of the problem poses a barrier to progress.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37490241)

- The Hacker News thread discusses various financial issues, including the pros and cons of credit and debit cards, debt collection practices, and challenges faced by the less affluent and homeless populations.
- It delves into areas such as medical billing, wasteful practices in the software industry, and systemic flaws within the American consumer finance structure.
- There is a broader divide in opinions regarding the value and impact of credit cards, underscoring a need for better regulation and a fairer financial system.

## [We built the fastest CI and it failed](https://earthly.dev/blog/shutting-down-earthly-ci/)

- Earthly, a company specializing in CI/CD (Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery) tooling, faced hurdles while introducing its product, Earthly CI, mainly due to migration costs and skepticism from potential customers.
- The company learned that a direct go-to-market strategy was ineffective, instead recognizing that developers needed to discover and adopt their tools independently, leading to a shift in approach.
- Due to errors such as not building incrementally and ignoring early feedback, they had to shut down their CI (Continuous Integration) component, reflecting the importance of user feedback and incremental development in tech product launch.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37481513)

- The discourse focuses on the challenges, and key considerations associated with continuous integration (CI) systems, including the failure of a company named Earthly.
- There's a comparison of features and usability within open-source CI/CD platforms such as GitLab, GitHub, and Azure DevOps, with topics like caching in build systems, CI process feedback, and rebuild decision-making being highlighted.
- The consensus is divided, stressing the important balance between specific features and simplicity in CI/CD systems. The discussion also contemplates the efficacy of advertising, demos, and trust building in promoting new developer tools.

## [Unity plan pricing and packaging updates](https://blog.unity.com/news/plan-pricing-and-packaging-updates)

- Unity Technologies is introducing a change in pricing and packaging of their Unity software commencing from January 1, 2024. The updates include a new Unity Runtime Fee based on game installations, applicable only to games hitting certain revenue and install benchmarks.
- Unity will enhance their subscription plans with extra features such as cloud-based asset storage, Unity DevOps tools, and AI at runtime without increasing the cost. It also appears Unity Personal will remain available to all users irrespective of their revenue generation.
- By November, new tools and services are to be added to Unity's subscription plans without a surge in seat pricing. Unity Plus will be phased out for new subscribers, current ones, however, will have the chance to upgrade to Unity Pro.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37481344)

- Unity, a game development platform, has made updates to its pricing and packaging, and introduced new DRM (Digital Rights Management) requirements, sparking concerns among developers.
- Developers' reactions to the pricing and fee changes have been mixed, leading some to consider switching to alternative platforms like Godot, which could potentially alienate Unity's independent developer base.
- The post also includes a comparison between the Unity and Unreal game engines, discussing their respective advantages and disadvantages.

## [New world record with an electric racing car: From 0 to 100 in 0.956 seconds](https://ethz.ch/en/news-and-events/eth-news/news/2023/09/from-zero-to-one-hundred-in-0-956-seconds.html)

- A new world record for electric vehicle acceleration has been set by students from ETH Zurich and Lucerne University of Applied Sciences and Arts with their hand-built racing car, mythen.
- The car accelerated from 0-100 km/h in 0.956 seconds over a 12.3-meter distance, surpassing the previous record by over a third.
- The students developed and optimized the car's components for weight and traction, marking the third time the Academic Motorsports Club Zurich (AMZ) has held this particular world acceleration record for electric cars.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37482517)

- The discussions cover a wide array of topics related to electric vehicles, such as electric racing cars, aerodynamics, hub motors, superchargers, electric go-karts, Tesla acceleration, and EV performance.
- Highlights of the conversations include reflections on acceleration records, advantages of electric motors, changing priorities in performance cars, future benchmarks and standards, and safety concerns.
- These discussions underline the development and growth in the field of electric vehicles, signifying their increasing importance and prominence in the automotive industry.

## [Any sufficiently advanced uninstaller is indistinguishable from malware](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/oldnewthing/20230911-00/?p=108749)

- The post highlights crashes with Explorer due to the use of a detouring technique in an uninstaller program.
- The author discourages the use of detouring and code injection within software development, proposing alternate methods for file deletion and cleanup on the Windows system.
- Potential issues with invoking the Windows Script Host are also discussed, with a recommendation for different tactics.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37491862)

- The discussion encompasses a wide range of topics, including uninstalling programs, software failures, operation of HTA and JScript in Windows, and issues with installer systems.
- There are in-depth discussions on different operating systems, their individual features, the problems they possess, their limitations, and possible solutions.
- Specific topics, like a bug in a Linux driver installer, limitations of Windows in deleting executable files, and file management across different operating systems, are also explored.

## [Sweden brings more books and handwriting practice back to its tech-heavy schools](https://apnews.com/article/sweden-digital-education-backlash-reading-writing-1dd964c628f76361c43dbf3964f7dbf4)

- Sweden is moving away from digital-centric education toward traditional teaching methods, like paper books and handwriting, due to concerns about screen time and falling reading skills.
- Though UNESCO advocates for the right blend of technology in education, it stresses the vital role of in-person, teacher-led learning.
- The shift in Sweden's approach might also be politically and ideologically motivated, contrasting other countries like Germany, which is lagging in digitalization efforts in education.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37479472)

- The debate primarily centers on the role and impact of technology in education, with some expressing concerns about distractions from in-depth learning and advocating for limited-functionality devices.
- Participants also emphasize the importance of traditional learning methods like handwriting and books, as well as good nutrition and physical well-being for better cognitive functioning.
- A significant part of the discussion explores the relevance and advantages of handwriting in the digital era, reflecting a multitude of views on technology and learning strategies in education.

## [Why does Google rank the real Python documentation below content farms?](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37482216)

- The author raises a concern about the ranking of official Python documentation in Google searches, which appears lower than sites like GeeksforGeeks, W3Schools, and Tutorialspoint.
- These other sites, referred to as content farms, are perceived by the author to deliver low-quality material compared to the official Python documentation.
- The post questions the credibility and reliability of Google's algorithmic selection in prioritizing these content farms over authentic sources of information.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37482216)

- Users express dissatisfaction with Google's search results for Python documentation as content farms often rank higher than official sources, perceived as less user-friendly and exaggeratedly detailed.
- There is a debate whether Google should tweak their algorithm to prioritize user-preferred sites or maintain the existing one considering factors like user clicks, highlighting the struggle between user preferences and ad revenue in Google's business model.
- Suggestions offering solutions include the use of alternative search engines, refined search techniques, and prioritizing high-quality content over content farms or websites loaded with advertisements.

## [Apple iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max](https://www.apple.com/newsroom/2023/09/apple-unveils-iphone-15-pro-and-iphone-15-pro-max/)

- Apple launched the latest iPhone models, the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max, incorporating a titanium design, advanced camera features, and the new A17 Pro chip for improved performance.
- The iPhones, available for pre-order on September 15 and officially released on September 22, boast upgraded video capabilities and improved wireless performance.
- Apple also revealed the Apple Watch Ultra 2 and emphasized its continuous effort towards sustainability through the creation of carbon neutral products.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37485271)

- The discussions cover multiple perspectives of gaming on Apple devices, from the potential of the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max to concerns regarding freemium games and microtransactions.
- There are also concerns about the decline of quality in mobile gaming, Apple's gaming initiatives, its approach to gaming and the limitations of gaming on iPhones.
- The potential entrance of Steam in the iOS market has intrigued many, with varied opinions ranging from scepticism to optimism about Apple's impact on the gaming industry.

## [Sony develops energy harvesting module from electromagnetic wave noise](https://www.sony-semicon.com/en/news/2023/2023090701.html)

- Sony Semiconductor Solutions has innovated an energy harvesting module capable of transforming electromagnetic wave noise into power, providing a stable supply for low-power IoT sensors and communication devices.
- The module is designed compact for facile installation and can be used in a wide range of applications, and can also detect alterations in harvested voltage to identify the status of a device.
- The intention is to use this cutting-edge technology to help build a sustainable IoT society, efficiently utilizing the constant electromagnetic wave noise produced by various electronic appliances.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37480512)

- Sony has pioneered a new technology designed to generate power by extracting energy from electromagnetic noise.
- Geared towards powering low-energy devices, this technology is adaptable and applicable to a broad array of use-cases, particularly those not requiring continuous connectivity.
- The innovation in Sony's solution resides in its simplicity and compact form-factor, making it ideal for use in Internet of Things (IoT) devices.

## [Interactive Map of Linux Kernel](https://makelinux.github.io/kernel/map/)

- The summary discusses the various components and functions of the Linux kernel like virtual memory, threads, processes, storage devices, networking, file systems, device drivers, interrupts, and system calls.
- It gives attention to specific drivers and subsystems within the kernel, including HID class drivers, network device drivers, and storage drivers, highlighting their importance.
- Also mentioned is the version of the kernel, core 5.1, and a reference to the Linux kernel map explaining system functionalities, layers, interfaces, and hardware access.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37490623)

- An interactive map of the Linux Kernel, visualizing its structure and elements, has been featured in the article.
- The map, created with SVG and comes with keyboard control for navigation, has been commended for its accuracy and utility, even as some users proposed enhancements.
- The map is regularly updated and contains links to more maps related to the Linux Kernel within the same website.

## [The way that Jensen Huang runs Nvidia: 40 direct reports, no 1:1s](https://twitter.com/danhockenmaier/status/1701608618087571787)

- Jensen Huang, Nvidia's CEO, maintains a unique managerial style, favoring a flat organizational structure and empowerment over traditional hierarchical methods.
- Instead of conducting one-on-one meetings, Huang prefers all discussions and decisions to occur in a group setting, emphasizing collective involvement.
- Despite being a CEO, Huang abstains from giving career advice to his employees, potentially as part of his unique management approach.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37486882)

- The discourse covers several topics including the pros and cons of 1:1 meetings, communication dynamics within a firm, the importance of self-awareness, feedback skills, and data-based leadership.
- Nvidia is referenced as an entity promoting collective accountability and transparency, not favoring 1:1 meetings.
- There's a degree of contention, with some lauding the effectiveness of 1:1 meetings, while others challenge their usefulness, proposing different communication strategies.

## [Vitalik Buterin reveals X account hack was caused by SIM-swap attack](https://cointelegraph.com/news/vitalik-buterin-reveals-x-account-hack-was-caused-by-sim-swap-attack)

- Ethereum's co-founder, Vitalik Buterin, exposed that his Twitter account was compromised due to a SIM-swap attack, where the perpetrator gained control of his T-Mobile account.
- Buterin cautioned that phone numbers are insecure for password resets and advocated users to dissociate their contact numbers from Twitter accounts.
- Elsewhere in the crypto world, Bitget, a crypto derivatives platform, has announced a new $100 million fund to expand its ecosystem and support regional exchanges, media, and analytics firms, aiming to diversify services and amplify the native crypto ecosystem for global users.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37479774)

- The debate addresses a range of security vulnerabilities in areas like Google accounts, Android apps, trust eroding factors, ideological hijacking, and challenges met by cryptocurrency users.
- Persistent themes include criticism towards SMS-based 2FA's weakness, the rising threat of SIM swapping attacks, and the urgent demand for stronger authentication systems.
- Other focal points encompass backup codes for 2FA, internal tools of T-Mobile, and Twitter's password reset protocol, alluding to potential safety concerns.

## [Notes from building a blog in Django](https://til.simonwillison.net/django/building-a-blog-in-django)

- The post provides a step-by-step guide to constructing a blog using Django, with PostgreSQL for managing accounts, teams, and billing.
- It explains the primary features of a blog, including the models used in Django, the views and URL setup, the Atom feed, social media cards, and how to carry out testing.
- The blog that has been built using these processes can be accessed at the provided link.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37482220)

- The discussion emphasizes the advantages of Django for basic CRUD applications and static site generation, along with complex applications examples created with Django.
- Users provide a positive outlook towards Django and its abilities in web development but also acknowledge the benefits of static site generators. They discuss trade-offs between using frameworks like Django and static sites.
- There's a debate around using dynamically generated pages or static pages for blogs—arguments made for both approaches—and mentions of performance issues with WordPress. Other tools and services like GitHub actions, Digital Ocean, and CMS options like Wagtail are also discussed.

## [The Death of Unity](https://www.gamedeveloper.com/business/the-death-of-unity)

- The author critically assesses Unity, a renowned game engine, remarking a decrease in quality and introduction of new business models adversely affecting developers.
- Unity's eroding features, continuing stability issues, and new price structure amp up costs for developers; these changes are predicted to strike indie and smaller developers the hardest.
- The author advises that Unity's actions could limit innovation, lessen third-party offerings, and potentially drive users away from their product, implying a brief-sighted approach.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37486431)

- The article voices concerns over Unity's new pricing model, with speculations that it could negatively affect developers and Unity itself.
- The discourse suggests alternatives to Unity, such as Unreal Engine and Godot, while discussing the future of Unity and the game development industry.
- The text underscores the importance of game design and accessibility above the choice of game engine, looking into the role of hardware limitations and development time.

## [The New Godot Development Fund](https://godotengine.org/article/godot-developer-fund/)

- The Godot Engine has launched the Godot Development Fund with the objective of obtaining consistent funding and securing the project's future.
- This fund aims to hire additional developers and upgrade the engine, and all donations directly support these improvements. The approach decreases reliance on one-time grants from corporations, aligning focus towards the needs of the community.
- The developers acknowledge the significance of community support and encourage sharing the fund link to propagate its reach and influence.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37481872)

- The Godot game engine has instigated a new development fund, aiming to bolster its ongoing development.
- Users voice distinct perspectives on Godot's standing against Unity, with some advocating improved C# support, while others favor GDScript.
- Conversations encompass topics like open-source development benefits, hurdles experienced by small open-source teams, Unity's latest price alterations, and their possible repercussions on Godot's funds and reputation.

## [How large is that number in the Law of Large Numbers?](https://thepalindrome.org/p/how-large-that-number-in-the-law)

- This piece discusses the mathematical principle of the law of large numbers and its practical applications, noting that the sample average aligns with the expected value as sample size grows.
- The piece underscores that the rate of convergence depends on the sample variance, meaning the spread of the data points from their average value.
- With real-world examples involving dice rolls and a lottery, the article emphasizes creating an understanding of variance when applying the law of large numbers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37480561)

- The article provides an in-depth exploration of statistical analysis topics, focusing on interpreting p-values, applying the Law of Large Numbers, and evaluating distribution deviations.
- The piece emphasizes the significance of assisting the scientific community to better understand statistics and improve the analysis and presentation of results.
- It underscores the necessity to consider the specificity of the phenomenon under study and the appropriate sample size, while pointing out certain inconsistencies in the representation of the data.

## [Simulating History with ChatGPT](https://resobscura.substack.com/p/simulating-history-with-chatgpt)

- The article explores the innovative use of large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT as teaching aids in history classrooms, highlighting their potential to boost humanities education.
- There are concerns about the potential for cheating and the assurance of historical accuracy when using these models.
- The author provides an example of using ChatGPT for a historical simulation assignment in a medieval history class, which reported high student engagement.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37480155)

- The article explores the potential application of ChatGPT in simulating historical environments for educational use and incorporating games and simulations to teach transferable skills.
- It discusses the differences and financial aspects of various religious institutions like temples, churches, and mosques, with a focus on the complexities of religion.
- It emphasizes concerns about bias in language models, the need for critical thinking skills, and raises an ethical question on the development of intelligent machines, referencing the Macy Cybernetics Conference and an incident involving a monkey.

## [‘Blue lights’ flash in sky moments before Morocco earthquake](https://www.thesun.co.uk/news/23911027/mystery-blue-lights-morocco-earthquake/)

- Blue lights, known as earthquake lights or EQLs, were observed in Morocco before a devastating earthquake, mirroring similar incidences in Turkey, Japan, China, Italy, and Mexico.
- The cause of EQLs is not yet determined, though some scientists speculate they could be linked with the energy release from shifting lithospheric plates.
- The earthquake in Morocco, measuring 7.2 in magnitude, resulted in significant damage and the loss of 2,900 lives. Efforts for relief and rescue are currently in progress, with contributions from tourists as well.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37484352)

- The blue lights seen before an earthquake in Morocco were due to failures in power lines or transformers, rather than a natural phenomenon.
- Probable reasons for these lights could be power lines shorting resulting from quake vibrations or the piezoelectric effect in rocks.
- The post underscores the necessity of media literacy and using verified information sources, as the reliability of certain news sources, notably tabloid newspapers, was questioned.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Fine-tune your own Llama 2 to replace GPT-3.5/4" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Fine-tune%20your%20own%20Llama%202%20to%20replace%20GPT-3.5%2F4&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20September%2013%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
