# 2023-08-08

## [I would rather see my books get pirated than this](https://janefriedman.com/i-would-rather-see-my-books-pirated/)

- The author, Jane Friedman, is concerned about the problem of garbage books being uploaded to Amazon and Goodreads with her name credited as the author.
- Friedman expresses frustration at the lack of control she has over these misleading books and the inability to remove them from her profiles.
- She calls for Amazon and Goodreads to implement a system to verify authorship and block fraudulent books.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37042561)

- The discussions revolve around various topics such as online shopping, trustworthiness, counterfeit products, AI algorithms, copyright issues, and challenges faced by authors and users on platforms like Amazon.
- Participants voice concerns about the future of reliable information, the importance of curated experiences, and the impact of digital goods and app sales on users and content creators.

## [Some tactics for writing in public](https://jvns.ca/blog/2023/08/07/tactics-for-writing-in-public/)

- Julia Evans shares her strategies for handling writing in public and managing online comments.
- She highlights the significance of sticking to facts, storytelling, asking technical queries, rectifying mistakes, and avoiding tedious or confrontational discussions.
- Setting boundaries and examining negative comments for valuable insights are also emphasized in the blog post.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37033403)

- The conversation covers a wide range of topics related to online writing, knowledge sharing, and community building.
- The challenges of self-censorship, offensive language, and misogyny in technical documentation are discussed.
- The subjective nature of truth and the brokenness of online discourse are also explored.

## [PSA: Intel Graphics Drivers Now Collect Telemetry by Default](https://www.techpowerup.com/312122/psa-intel-graphics-drivers-now-collect-telemetry-by-default)

- Intel has introduced the Compute Improvement Program (CIP) in their beta drivers for Arc GPUs, which collects data on PC usage and performance to enhance future products.
- Data collection is enabled by default, but users have the option to disable it during installation.
- There is a divided opinion among users regarding the necessity of telemetry, with concerns raised about privacy and system resources.
- Some users compare Intel's approach with Nvidia's software-focused strategy and mention the performance of Nvidia's latest GPU architecture.
- AMD has confirmed the release of new Radeon 7000-series graphics cards and claims a significant reduction in idle power consumption with enabled variable refresh rate.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37033475)

- The discussion covers several topics in operating systems, including Intel and Nvidia collecting telemetry data in their drivers, the pros and cons of Linux compared to Windows and macOS, limitations and problems with software and hardware, and ethical concerns about user tracking and data privacy.
- Users share their personal experiences, expressing their preferences and frustrations. They also discuss workarounds and alternative options.
- The conversation addresses the need for enforceable legislation, outdated design choices in software, and the pressure for growth in large corporations.

## [Police raid Worldcoin warehouse in Nairobi](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2023/08/police-raid-worldcoin-cryptocurrency-warehouse-in-nairobi/)

- Kenyan police have raided a cryptocurrency company called WorldCoin and confiscated machines and documents.
- The government of Kenya has suspended the company's operations and initiated an investigation citing security concerns.
- WorldCoin offers free crypto tokens in exchange for individuals allowing their eyes to be scanned, aiming to create a global "identity and financial network." Data watchdogs in various countries are also investigating the company due to concerns about potential data misuse.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37036277)

- The warehouse of Worldcoin, a cryptocurrency company in Nairobi, was raided by the police.
- The conversation includes criticisms of Worldcoin's tokenomics and allegations of market manipulation against the company.
- The discussion also covers OpenAI, its founder Sam Altman, and the concept of regulatory capture as participants express skepticism towards OpenAI's intentions and its call for regulation.
- The implementation of Universal Basic Income (UBI) through cryptocurrencies and the potential impact of war on such a system are debated.
- The redistributive nature of UBI and the risks and challenges associated with Worldcoin are discussed, including concerns about identity issues, privacy, and the value of Worldcoin tokens.

## [Overworked and underpaid, VFX workers vote to unionize at Marvel](https://www.vulture.com/2023/08/vfx-workers-vote-to-unionize-at-marvel-for-the-first-time.html)

- Visual-effects workers at Marvel Studios have voted to unionize and are seeking recognition from IATSE for better rights and protections.
- This is the first time VFX professionals have united to demand their rights within the entertainment industry.
- Workers have been denied benefits like paid overtime and healthcare, leading to labor shortages and unrealistic deadlines.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37041394)

- VFX workers at Marvel have voted to unionize due to being overworked and underpaid, with fixed-cost contracts resulting in extra work without extra compensation.
- Studios may consider using generative AI to mitigate the impact of the union, which highlights the challenges faced by VFX artists.
- The discussion also involves the impact of underbidding and contract layoffs, as well as the potential impact of generative AI on the industry.

## [Kafka is dead, long live Kafka](https://www.warpstream.com/blog/kafka-is-dead-long-live-kafka)

- The author discusses the limitations and drawbacks of Kafka, a popular data streaming platform.
- They introduce WarpStream as a cheaper and easier alternative to Kafka, running on commodity object storage like AWS S3.
- WarpStream uses agents instead of brokers and separates data from metadata for scalability and faster recovery, reducing costs and operational overhead, although it has higher latency.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37036291)

- Kafka is a widely used data technology, but opinions on it are divided.
- Some users appreciate Kafka for its durability and fault-tolerance, while others find it complex and prefer simpler tools.
- The article explores alternative messaging queues like RabbitMQ and discusses the benefits of using ClickHouse for data storage.
- A cost-effective serverless Kafka solution called WarpStream is introduced, along with its architecture and trade-offs.
- The challenges and costs of running Kafka on cloud providers are discussed, and WarpStream is presented as a potential alternative.
- The effectiveness and management of Kafka as a data streaming platform are debated, and user feedback and future plans for WarpStream are addressed.
- The article emphasizes the diversity of perspectives and alternative solutions in the data technology field.

## Ask HN: What's the coolest physical thing you've made?

- The HN community is actively involved in various non-software projects and creations.
- Members are engaging in a wide range of activities, including art, design, hardware, and physical products.
- The community's diverse interests extend beyond software-related projects, showcasing the wide range of talents and interests among its members.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37033652)

- The text consists of online discussions revolving around various DIY projects and creations, including artwork, engineering, woodworking, telescope building, device repair, and airplane construction.
- Users share their experiences and achievements in these areas, showcasing their creativity and skills.
- The discussions also cover topics like career choices, living in remote locations, limitations in modifying devices, and the challenges and hazards involved in DIY renovations.

## [Raku: A language for gremlins](https://buttondown.email/hillelwayne/archive/raku-a-language-for-gremlins/)

- The author has added a new section on optimizing TLA+ model checking to learntla.
- Due to a writing slump, the author has been learning the programming language Raku.
- Raku is described as a language designed by intelligent gremlins, known for its use of Unicode operators and the ability to define new operators.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37040681)

- The article examines the subjective nature of programming languages, using the example of Raku and its placement on a 2D graph of surprise and delight/horror.
- Commenters discuss the characteristics of programming languages such as Perl, C++, and C, sharing personal experiences and opinions on their surprises and challenges.
- The conversation includes feedback on the documentation and features of Raku, as well as comparisons to other languages.

## [How Zoom’s terms of service and practices apply to AI features](https://blog.zoom.us/zooms-term-service-ai/)

- Zoom has revised its terms of service to ensure that customer content is not utilized for training its AI models without consent.
- The company is focused on offering transparency and user control over its AI features and the sharing of customer content.
- Zoom emphasizes that customers maintain ownership and control over their content, and only utilizes it with permission for value-added services. Healthcare and education customers have specific agreements safeguarding their data. Zoom has also introduced generative AI features that can be enabled and monitored by account owners and administrators following transparent consent processes. The company is dedicated to prioritizing privacy and improving its services while upholding user rights.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37037196)

- Users have concerns about Zoom's terms of service and AI features, expressing skepticism about the company's marketing claims.
- Worries about data usage, privacy, encryption, and attorney-client privilege are prevalent among Zoom users.
- Mistrust and reluctance to use Zoom are common, leading to the exploration of alternative platforms and discussions around user data privacy and security.

## [The $1M shot that changed sports contests](https://www.espn.com/nba/story/_/id/36146138/million-dollar-shot-michael-jordan-chicago-bulls-1993)

- Don Calhoun's million-dollar shot during a Bulls game in 1993 caused a rise in sporting event contests and influenced the growth of SCA Promotions.
- Initially, Calhoun had doubts about receiving his prize, but fan outrage helped him secure it.
- Clarence Calhoun II's impressive college basketball shot also had a significant impact on his life and contributed to his family's success.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37033899)

- Michael Calhoun made a half-court shot during a basketball game and won $1 million, valuing the ball more for sentimental reasons than its monetary worth.
- Michael Jordan was involved in ensuring Calhoun received his prize.
- The article discusses the impact of teaching others, the benefits of a better education system, failures of the public education system, disparities in cultural backgrounds, a basketball moment involving Michael Jordan, and a game between Barbados and Grenada, as well as the role of insurance companies in such contests.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="I would rather see my books get pirated than this" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=I%20would%20rather%20see%20my%20books%20get%20pirated%20than%20this&subheading=Heimdall" />
</head>
