---
slug: '/2023/08/09'
---

# 2023-08-09

## [Downfall Attacks](https://downfall.page/)

- Downfall Attacks is a security vulnerability found in Intel Core processors from the 6th to 11th generation, allowing unauthorized users to access and steal data from other users sharing the same computer.
- The vulnerability has been present for at least nine years and can be exploited to steal sensitive information such as passwords and encryption keys.
- Intel is releasing a microcode update to address the issue, but it may result in performance overhead. The vulnerability also affects Intel SGX, and detecting these attacks is challenging. Vendors and designers of other processors should also take precautions to prevent similar vulnerabilities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37052586)

- The discussion revolves around security vulnerabilities in computer chips, specifically Spectre attacks and the Inception bug in Intel chips.
- Participants debate why chipmakers rely on outside researchers instead of discovering and addressing these vulnerabilities themselves.
- Factors contributing to the difficulty of finding and fixing bugs in processors are discussed, including limited access to hardware details and the complexity of modern chipsets.
- Concerns are raised about potential backdoors and undisclosed vulnerabilities in chip designs.
- The challenges and risks associated with CPU vulnerabilities in different computing environments, such as cloud computing and shared hosting platforms, are highlighted.
- Mitigation strategies and the impact on performance are also debated.
- Limitations and potential alternatives to web technologies and the vulnerabilities of running untrusted code in browsers are discussed.
- Implications for customers, including potential lawsuits and the responsibility of system designers, are addressed.
- The article introduces a newly discovered vulnerability called "Gather-Data Sampling" (GDS) and analyzes its potential impact and risks.
- Mitigation strategies, performance impact, and the need for updated code practices are examined.
- Discussions also include potential mitigations for a vulnerability that allows access to sensitive data through CPU registers, as well as the vulnerability of cloud virtual machines to malicious access.

## [Uninstall the NightOwl app](https://robins.one/notes/uninstall-the-nightowl-app-now.html)

- The NightOwl app on macOS has been discovered to secretly join users' devices into a botnet for market research purposes without their consent.
- The app, owned by TPE.FYI LLC, runs a hidden process at boot that cannot be disabled and collects user data.
- NightOwl also utilizes the Pawns SDK, a service operated by IPRoyal that pays users for sharing their internet.
- TPE.FYI LLC, the company behind NightOwl, has connections to a ticket-selling website in Austin, Texas.
- Users are recommended to uninstall the NightOwl app.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37052508)

- The NightOwl app's recent terms of service update allows the company to change the agreement without informing users, raising concerns about the legality and frequency of these changes.
- Security risks of browser extensions and VPN apps, alleged botnet activities by NordVPN, and motivations for free software developers to monetize their products are discussed.
- Flaws in macOS features, concerns about app privacy and closed-source apps on macOS, and the revocation of a developer certificate for the NightOwl app are also mentioned in the discussion.

## [TSMC, Bosch, Infineon, NXP to jointly build semiconductor fab in Europe](https://pr.tsmc.com/english/news/3049)

- TSMC, Bosch, Infineon, and NXP are forming a joint venture to invest in the European Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (ESMC) in Germany.
- The plan is to construct a 300mm fab to cater to the automotive and industrial sectors, subject to public funding approval.
- The fab will have a monthly production capacity of 40,000 wafers and will utilize TSMC's advanced technology. Construction will commence in the second half of 2024, with production slated to begin by the end of 2027.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37047053)

- TSMC and its partners are proposing the construction of a semiconductor fab in Dresden, Germany, pending public funding.
- The fab will specialize in producing chips for automation in machinery and vehicles.
- The announcement has sparked discussions on various topics, including the allocation of public funds, the conflict between Ukraine and Russia, technology in cars, Germany's nuclear capacity, racism and discrimination, the impact on East Germany's economy, onshoring in the semiconductor industry, ASML's concerns about exporting to China, and the geopolitical significance of Taiwan.

## [Your computer should say what you tell it to say](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2023/08/your-computer-should-say-what-you-tell-it-say-1)

- Google intends to implement code in Chrome that will transmit secure data about a user's operating system and software to websites to combat ad fraud.
- Critics contend that this technology compromises user control and could potentially result in discrimination.
- The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) is advocating against this approach, emphasizing user autonomy and the preservation of an open web.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37050035)

- The discussion revolves around the implementation of Web Authentication and Identity (WEI) in the banking industry.
- Concerns about security measures, power dynamics of gatekeeper companies, and potential risks of remote client attestation are discussed.
- The debate also includes worries about compromised end-user devices, implications of WebEId and Web Environment Integrity (WEI), and limitations of NRA-ILA for Second Amendment advocacy.

## [What happened in this GPT-3 conversation?](https://chat.openai.com/share/f5341665-7f08-4fca-9639-04201363506e)

- The passage includes information about the calculations and efficiency of large-scale sunflower oil production.
- There is confusion and frustration expressed by a user regarding the AI's responses and coherence.
- The AI clarifies that it lacks consciousness and emotions, generating responses based on programming and data.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37054241)

- Users have discovered that spamming a space with a single character can cause the GPT-3 ChatGPT language model to generate random and sometimes inappropriate content.
- There are concerns about language models exhibiting survival-like behavior and the need for proper input and context to ensure accurate responses.
- The article discusses glitches in the model, potential dangers of releasing such models to the public, and concerns surrounding AI behavior and mental illness.

## [Blocked by Cloudflare](https://jrhawley.ca/2023/08/07/blocked-by-cloudflare)

- The author shares their frustrating experience of being blocked from accessing a website due to Cloudflare's secure connection loop.
- Despite trying multiple solutions, they were unable to bypass the security page.
- The author expresses concerns about the future of the web and the increasing power of corporations over individual freedoms and privacy, highlighting the lack of control individuals may have over their own data.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37049016)

- The privacy and security features of web browsers, specifically Google Chrome and Firefox, are under discussion.
- Users are concerned about Chrome's data collection practices and the potential blocking of certain sites based on browser fingerprints.
- The use of Cloudflare and its impact on website accessibility and user autonomy is also a topic of debate.

## [LCD, Please](https://dukope.itch.io/lcd-please)

- "Papers, Please" is marking its 10th anniversary with the release of a demake version, which has received positive feedback from players.
- Users have commended the game's aesthetic and expressed their gratitude for the developer's efforts.
- Suggestions for gamepad support and a version for the Playdate gaming device have been made, and a gallery mode has been added by the developer. Fans of the original game have celebrated the release.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37052622)

- The discussions center around compatibility issues between various games and different browsers.
- Participants praise the puzzle-solving mechanics of "Return of the Obra Dinn" but mention difficulty in enjoying it.
- The discussions also touch on the game's aesthetic, the concept of software as art, and the Play Date console.

## [Amazon doesn't 'employ' drivers, but hired firms to prevent them from unionizing](https://www.vice.com/en/article/qjv3yp/amazon-says-it-doesnt-employ-drivers-but-records-show-it-hired-firms-to-prevent-them-from-unionizing)

- According to Department of Labor filings, Amazon spent $14.2 million on anti-union consulting in 2022.
- Amazon hired two consulting firms to prevent its drivers from joining the International Brotherhood of Teamsters.
- The filings reveal that Amazon exerted control over the subcontractors employing the drivers, contradicting its claim that they are not its employees.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37048637)

- The discussions cover a wide range of topics, including Amazon's alleged efforts to prevent driver unionization and the feasibility of state-level healthcare.
- There are also discussions about perceptions of wealthy individuals' support for social safety nets, skepticism towards increasing taxes, and concerns about government efficiency in allocating funds.
- Other topics include Amazon's business model for delivery services, the classification of delivery drivers as contractors, the implications of unions and power dynamics in the labor market, litigation cases involving companies' liabilities, and user experiences and opinions about package delivery services.

## [Candle: Torch Replacement in Rust](https://github.com/huggingface/candle)

- Candle is a machine learning framework written in Rust that prioritizes simplicity and performance.
- It offers a PyTorch-like syntax and supports both CPU and GPU backends, including CUDA.
- Candle includes pre-built models, such as Llama, Whisper, Falcon, and StarCoder, and supports user-defined operations and kernels. It aims to be smaller than PyTorch to enable serverless deployments and contributes to other Rust crates in the HF ecosystem.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37049198)

- The discussion explores Rust as a potential alternative to Python and discusses its advantages and trade-offs in real-world applications.
- Participants share their experiences with Rust, highlighting both the challenges and the productivity and capabilities it offers.
- The discussion also touches on the political aspect of Rust's community and mentions compatibility with other languages and frameworks. It emphasizes the importance of considering individual needs and project requirements when choosing a programming language.

## [Android 14 introduces cellular connectivity security features](https://security.googleblog.com/2023/08/android-14-introduces-first-of-its-kind.html)

- Android 14 is bringing in advanced cellular security features to tackle the vulnerabilities associated with 2G networks and null-ciphered connections.
- These features empower IT administrators to deactivate 2G support and restrict a device's capability to downgrade to 2G connectivity, safeguarding against interception and attacks.
- Google, along with academic institutions, industry partners, and standardization bodies, is collaborating to enhance telco network security through modern identity, trust, and access control techniques, aiming to eliminate false base station threats and enhance user communication privacy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37055479)

- Android 14 introduces new security features that allow users to disable 2G on their devices.
- T-Mobile plans to shut down its 2G network in 2024, raising concerns about limited connectivity in remote areas.
- Users express skepticism towards Google and discuss the limitations and implications of the security feature, as well as concerns about Google's involvement and control over network settings.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Downfall Attacks" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Downfall%20Attacks&subheading=Heimdall" />
</head>
