---
slug: '/2023/08/11'
---

# 2023-08-11

## [Vim Boss](https://neovim.io/news/2023/08)

- Bram, the creator of Vim, is considered a role model in the tech community due to his principles of problem-solving and modesty.
- Neovim is a derivative of Vim that aims to experiment, improve documentation, enhance extensibility, and enable embedding capabilities.
- The article highlights the importance of pragmatism and keeping the goal in mind, emphasizing the need to compare actions with results.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37078719)

- Bram Moolenaar, the creator of Vim, has sadly passed away, leading to an outpouring of gratitude for his significant contributions to the programming community.
- Discussions are taking place regarding the legacy of Vim and alternative editors, as well as the split between Vim and NeoVim.
- Concerns have been raised about the future of these projects without their original creators, with discussions about the importance of having control over domains and hosting platforms like SourceHut.

## [The Future of the Vim Project](https://groups.google.com/g/vim_dev/c/dq9Wu5jqVTw)

- The future of the Vim project is being discussed, including plans for a maintenance update and potentially adopting a more modern approach.
- The organization has granted access to GitHub and is inviting additional members to join.
- There are discussions about potentially moving the Vim homepage to a different provider, with support from other members and suggestions for future development.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37074452)

- Hacker News is a popular forum for discussing various topics, including managing digital assets after death and comparing text editors Vim and Neovim.
- Users on Hacker News share suggestions, personal experiences, and concerns about password management, secure storage of information, estate planning, and accessing financial accounts after death.
- The discussions also touch on the use of Lua in Neovim's configuration, the potential integration of Neovim features into Vim, and issues with Neovim GUIs on macOS.

## [HashiCorp adopts Business Source License](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/hashicorp-adopts-business-source-license)

- HashiCorp, a technology company, will use the Business Source License (BSL) for its future product releases to support its community and provide open software.
- The BSL allows copying, modification, redistribution, non-commercial use, and commercial use under specific conditions.
- The change in license aims to address concerns about vendors benefiting from open-source projects without giving back and will still involve publishing source code and working closely with partners and customers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37081306)

- HashiCorp's adoption of the Business Source License (BSL) is generating criticism and sparking a debate on the balance between open source principles and commercial viability.
- There is disagreement about the definition of "open source" and concerns that the promotion of "source available" software as "open source" may dilute the term.
- The conversation explores copyright assignments, license terms, and the distinction between open core and not open-source models, with varying opinions on the best approach for open-source projects and commercialization.
- The potential negative impact of going public on software companies and the differences between open source and source-available software licenses are also discussed.
- The BSL is questioned on whether it should be considered open source, and the implications of proprietary vendors using OSI-approved license characteristics are debated.
- The conversation touches on the implications of open-source software and licenses on competition and the importance of copyright ownership.
- The revenue sources of HashiCorp, including the pricing structure of their support services, and potential competitors in the market are discussed.
- Overall, the conversation highlights the challenges and considerations faced by HashiCorp and other companies in the open-source software industry.

## [Source code for Quake 2 rerelease](https://github.com/id-Software/quake2-rerelease-dll)

- The repository contains the code for the upcoming 2023 re-release of Quake II, offering new modding opportunities.
- The codebase requires a C++17 compiler and is compatible with multiple platforms.
- Changes have been made to enhance gameplay, optimize features like print formatting and sound attenuation, and fix bugs. The update also includes modifications to data values and structures, as well as new functions and variables.
- The save system has been improved to support importing/exporting JSON files.
- Updates to the server protocol ensure compatibility and introduce new features.
- Detailed information is provided on server-client communication, including commands and messages exchanged between the server and client.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37082771)

- The conversation explores various aspects of the Quake series, including the recent release of its source code and the nostalgia surrounding classic games.
- Participants delve into the impact of Quake on the gaming industry and its significance in terms of modding and technological advancements.
- The conversation also touches on coding conventions, different versions and platforms of the games, and the use of JSON and WASM in Quake.

## [MS Teams channels cannot contain MS-DOS device names](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/limits-specifications-teams)

- The first article discusses the limits and specifications of Microsoft Teams, covering topics like team and member limits, messaging, meetings, and calls.
- The second document focuses on the limitations and features of Microsoft Teams, including meeting participants, recording limits, storage, and browser compatibility.
- The third document provides an overview of browser support for Microsoft Teams, recommending the use of certain browsers and mentioning any limitations and known issues.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37076523)

- The discussion explores the limitations and restrictions of Microsoft Teams and SharePoint.
- Participants discuss the challenges of file and function naming across different operating systems.
- Frustrations with bloated software applications are also addressed.

## [Firefox desktop extensions coming soon for the upcoming Android release](https://blog.mozilla.org/addons/2023/08/10/prepare-your-firefox-desktop-extension-for-the-upcoming-android-release/)

- Mozilla is introducing support for an open ecosystem of extensions on Firefox for Android.
- Developers can optimize their desktop extensions for mobile use on Firefox for Android.
- Firefox for Android will be the only major Android browser to support this extension ecosystem.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37084677)

- Mozilla plans to release desktop extensions for its upcoming Android release of Firefox to give users more customization options and compete with Chrome and Safari.
- There is criticism, ideological disagreements, and speculation about corporate influences regarding Mozilla, but the announcement of upcoming extension support for Android is generally seen as positive.
- Users have mixed feelings about Firefox's current extension support on Android, expressing both excitement and frustration, while Mozilla aims to enhance the user experience and attract more users by introducing extensions on Firefox for Android.

## [Do Machine Learning Models Memorize or Generalize?](https://pair.withgoogle.com/explorables/grokking/)

- Researchers have uncovered a phenomenon in machine learning called "grokking" which describes the transition from memorizing training data to generalizing on unseen inputs.
- Through their study, they found that weight decay plays a crucial role in enabling models to generalize effectively.
- The occurrence of "grokking" depends on factors like model size, weight decay, and data size, highlighting the importance of these elements in machine learning.
- The text also explores different techniques to prevent overfitting in machine learning models.
- It discusses the relationship between angles in mathematical operations and neural network outputs.
- Additionally, the text references various papers and articles related to machine learning and artificial intelligence.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37076210)

- The debate revolves around whether machine learning models primarily memorize or generalize information, compared to how human memory works.
- Participants discuss data compression as a form of intelligence and explore the mechanisms of memory in the human brain.
- Other topics include limitations of AI language models, regularization techniques in linear regression, the use of the term "grok" in AI, and the generalization capabilities of neural networks.

## [My Overkill Home Network](https://blog.networkprofile.org/my-home-network-complete-details-2023/)

- The author provides a detailed description of their home network setup, including the use of Wireguard VPN and Ripe Atlas Probe.
- They discuss their guide on using RIPE Atlas for accurate time synchronization and creating an NTP server using a Raspberry Pi and GPS.
- The author mentions various Raspberry Pi models and GPS modules used in their setup, along with ESXi hosts, storage servers, and NVRs. They also talk about implementing backup plans and power upgrades. Other components mentioned include fiber optic cables, a TrueNAS backup server, power monitoring, a TinyPilot device, an antenna for ADS-B data, a weather station, and a WiFi setup.
- The author plans for future projects and shares a cautionary story about ignoring battery issues in a UPS.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37081789)

- The conversation revolves around home networking and infrastructure, discussing power consumption, environmental impact, software options, and internet connectivity.
- Participants have different preferences, with some advocating for cloud storage and virtualized instances for efficiency, while others enjoy building and maintaining their own home networks.
- Topics covered include the benefits of hosting locally, concerns about the obsolescence of cloud-based technology, the use of low-power devices and solar power, bandwidth usage, and server hardware considerations. The overall emphasis is on the importance of researching and finding the right setup for individual needs.

## [eSignature Beta for Google Docs and Google Drive](https://workspaceupdates.googleblog.com/2023/08/esignature-google-docs-google-drive.html)

- Google Workspace is launching an open beta for its eSignature feature in Google Docs and Google Drive.
- This feature will streamline the workflow for solopreneurs and small businesses, allowing them to request and add signatures to official contracts directly within Google Docs.
- Additional capabilities, such as audit trail, multi-signer support, and compatibility with non-Gmail users, will be introduced later this year.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37079534)

- Google has introduced a new eSignature feature for Google Docs and Google Drive, receiving both positive and negative feedback from users.
- Some users appreciate the improvement, while others criticize its limited functionality, particularly in terms of identity verification, accessibility of signed documents, and an audit trail.
- Alternative eSignature solutions like DocuSign are mentioned, raising discussions about the potential impact on competitors, the need for legislative measures, and the availability and pricing of the Google eSignature tool.

## [Show HN: Applite – Clean Homebrew front end app for macOS built with SwiftUI](https://aerolite.dev/applite/index.html)

- Applite is a free and open-source application for macOS that simplifies the management of third-party applications.
- It uses the Homebrew package manager and provides a user-friendly interface for non-technical users.
- Applite is secure, does not track user information, and can be used alongside existing Homebrew installations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37075730)

- Applite is a macOS app that simplifies managing and syncing Homebrew installations with a user-friendly interface.
- It supports GUI apps installed through Homebrew and has the potential for enterprise support.
- The app is free and open-source, allowing users to donate to cover fees. Discussions have arisen regarding adding support for other package managers and implementing IT management features.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Vim Boss" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Vim%20Boss&subheading=Friday,%20August%2011,%202023:%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
