---
slug: '/2023/08/13'
---

# 2023-08-13

## [The Carrot Problem](https://www.atvbt.com/the-carrot-problem/)

- The article explores the concept of "Carrot Problems," where successful individuals or companies mislead others into investing time and effort into ineffective or misleading strategies.
- Examples include athletes who use steroids but provide alternative explanations for their improved performance and companies using deceptive tactics to boost revenue.
- The author emphasizes the value of being an insider and having access to private information to navigate these situations and avoid falling into the traps of Carrot Problems.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37100226)

- The discussion encompasses various topics such as the role of luck in achieving success and the impact of inequality on quality of life.
- The question of whether successful individuals should share their strategies is also explored.
- Controversial issues like the statement "It's okay to be white" and the concept of the "carrot problem" are discussed, highlighting how success may not always be attributed to the correct factors.

## [Exploring the Internals of Linux v0.01](https://seiya.me/blog/reading-linux-v0.01)

- The first version of Linux, v0.01, contained only 10,239 lines of code and was hardcoded for the Intel 386 architecture.
- The author explores various aspects of v0.01, including system calls, the supported filesystem, the scheduler, and the use of assembly language.
- Modern toolchains face challenges when attempting to compile v0.01, making it a unique and interesting codebase to study and learn from.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37101588)

- The post highlights a list of influential and successful codebases, including Linux, SQLite, and Git, that have freely available source code for studying programming styles and problem-solving approaches.
- It explores the Unix and BSD family members, the challenges faced in maintaining backward compatibility, and the evolution of modern Linux compared to its initial version.
- The discussion revolves around the use of the HLT instruction in older CPUs and its impact on power consumption, with users debating its potential harm or efficiency.

## [Record labels hit Internet Archive with new copyright lawsuit](https://torrentfreak.com/record-labels-hit-internet-archive-with-new-400m-copyright-lawsuit-230812/)

- UMG, Capitol, and Sony have filed a copyright infringement lawsuit against Internet Archive and its founder Brewster Kale, claiming that the organization made unauthorized copies of copyrighted recordings and distributed them illegally.
- The lawsuit specifically targets Internet Archive's 'Great 78 Project,' which aims to preserve and research 78rpm records.
- The record labels allege infringement of 2,749 works by artists like Frank Sinatra, Billie Holiday, Louis Armstrong, and Bing Crosby. The plaintiffs are seeking damages and injunctive relief.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37100140)

- Record labels have sued the Internet Archive for providing free access to copyrighted music, sparking discussions around copyright laws and alternative business models for artists.
- The debate centers around the balance between copyright protection and accessibility, as well as the preservation of cultural heritage.
- The music industry has seen a decrease in piracy with the rise of streaming services, but video piracy remains a challenge due to fragmentation and geolocking. Convenience plays a crucial role in combating piracy.

## [A conversation with a newspaper owner raided by cops](https://thehandbasket.substack.com/p/a-conversation-with-the-newspaper)

- The Marion County Record, a local newspaper in Kansas, was raided by the police.
- The raid may be related to the newspaper's investigation into alleged sexual misconduct by the police chief.
- Supporters have shown solidarity with the newspaper.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37102271)

- The article features a conversation with a newspaper owner who was raided by the police during their investigation into the police chief, raising concerns about police misconduct and lack of accountability.
- It highlights the need for secure backup and encryption for small news outlets and exposes the lack of accountability in the legal system.
- The conversation delves into topics such as political biases, accusations against political candidates, distrust in law enforcement, corruption in small towns, and unethical joy based on origin.

## [tRPC – Build and consume typesafe APIs without schemas or code generation](https://trpc.io/)

- tRPC is a powerful tool for developers to create end-to-end typesafe APIs with ease.
- It offers automatic typesafety and a seamless developer experience, making it highly praised by developers.
- tRPC is compatible with multiple frameworks and has a small bundle size, allowing developers to define procedures and create HTTP servers effortlessly. Clients can connect to the server and query data with TypeScript autocompletion, significantly improving code quality, delivery speed, and developer satisfaction.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37098875)

- tRPC is a tool for building and consuming APIs without needing schemas or code generation.
- Opinions on tRPC are divided, with some praising its simplicity and others expressing concerns about code decoupling and maintainability.
- Accurately describing and creating reusable and informative types/interfaces/APIs is important, and alternative approaches are discussed.
- Various frameworks and libraries for inter-service communication and API development are suggested and discussed.
- Dealing with different types of validation errors when using different schemas can be annoying, and potential alternatives are mentioned.
- tRPC and Zod are discussed, including their benefits and limitations and their impact on TypeScript development.
- A comparison is made between tRPC and React Server Components (RSC), and the importance of choosing language-independent RPC mechanisms is emphasized.
- The benefits and drawbacks of using tRPC for frontend-to-server communication optimization are considered.
- The compatibility of tRPC with other technologies is discussed, as well as its potential time and bug-saving advantages.

## [Auditory illusions with examples from Daft Punk](https://www.ugu.rs/blog/auditory-illusions-with-samples-from-daft-punk/)

- The article explores auditory illusions in music, using examples from Daft Punk's songs.
- It explains the field of psychoacoustics, which is the study of sound perception and audiology.
- The article discusses two auditory illusions: the continuity effect and phonemic restoration effect, as well as the octave illusion.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37103802)

- The thread explores auditory illusions in music, with examples from artists like Daft Punk.
- Users share clips and examples of environmental sounds transitioning into music and vice versa in various media.
- The discussion delves into explanations and interpretations of the auditory effects, including the Haas Effect, vocoders, and misheard lyrics.

## [Deep Learning Systems](https://dlsyscourse.org/lectures/)

- The summary provides a detailed schedule of lectures for the Deep Learning Systems course offered by DL Systems.
- The schedule includes information about topics, dates for both CMU and online lectures, instructors, slides, and video recordings.
- Lecture videos for the public online course will be available on the course page for easy access.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37101515)

- Dlsyscourse.org offers a deep learning course that is discussed in the article.
- The article points out the use of confusing terminology in deep learning concepts.
- Other open educational resources in the field are mentioned, along with positive reviews of the instructor for the course.

## [My $0->$100M->$0 in 5 years story](https://old.reddit.com/r/startups/comments/15p8qrx/my_0100m0_in_5_years_story/)

- Reddit users discuss the challenges and criticisms of seeking venture capital (VC) funding for startups, sharing personal experiences of pressure to grow quickly and negative effects on their businesses.
- Some users advocate for bootstrapping and self-funding a startup, highlighting the benefits and success that can come from this approach.
- The conversation reveals mixed opinions on VCs, with some cautioning against their influence and others recognizing the potential for success if managed properly. Overall, there is dissatisfaction and disillusionment with the VC system expressed in the comments.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37102442)

- The author shares their experience of hiring highly paid employees without the necessary skills, highlighting the importance of focusing on core tasks in business.
- The discussion delves into topics such as the value of technical knowledge in hiring, interview techniques, the pros and cons of VC funding, and living standards in Europe compared to the US.
- The post also explores the role of founders and VCs in startups, with the author blaming VCs for their startup's failure, while commenters question management decisions and emphasize the significance of hiring and financial decisions. It also touches on the challenges founders face when accepting VC funding and the importance of business scaling.

## [20 Years of Vim](https://www.contextualize.ai/mpereira/20-years-of-vim-ef9acae9)

- The chart showcases the 20-year progress of the Vim git repository, emphasizing the dedicated efforts of maintainers in evolving Vim while preserving its core essence.
- Key milestones such as the inaugural VimConf in 2013, Vim's transition to GitHub in 2015, and the introduction of Neovim are highlighted.
- The chart also acknowledges Vim's 25th birthday festivities and the most recent Vim releases, backed by information from GitHub, Hacker News, Wikipedia, and marc.info.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37099750)

- An annotated chart has been created to showcase the evolution of Vim over the past two decades.
- The discussion involves various topics including cursor behavior, the popularity of Vim, and the impact of Neovim.
- Users express gratitude towards the maintainers and creator of Vim, and there is a mention of resources for learning Vim.

## [Illegal raids contribute to death of newspaper co-owner](http://marionrecord.com/)

- The co-owner of a newspaper in Marion, KS passed away during illegal raids.
- Unpaid taxes have risen by 24%.
- A 10-year-old child frequently visits a senior center, bringing joy to the residents.
- Internet monitors played a crucial role in apprehending a suspect involved in child pornography.
- A restaurateur has accused both the newspaper and a councilwoman.
- An auction is taking place to recover unpaid taxes.
- The newspaper has enjoyed a favorable reputation for three consecutive years.
- The weather forecast predicts showers and thunderstorms.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37105764)

- A 98-year-old newspaper co-owner passed away due to stress and grief caused by illegal police raids on her home and office.
- The newspaper plans to file a federal lawsuit against the City of Marion, sparking discussions about the need for journalists to protect their work processes and the potential abuse of power by the police.
- Conversations also touched on the challenges of holding law enforcement accountable, examples of other raids, and the complexity of the issue, including downvoting and flagging comments, expressing conservative views, removal of comments, exposure of right-wing politicians, and perceived platform bias.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="The Carrot Problem" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=The%20Carrot%20Problem&subheading=Sunday,%20August%2013,%202023:%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
