---
slug: '/2023/08/14'
---

# 2023-08-14

## [Azure ChatGPT: Private and secure ChatGPT for internal enterprise use](https://github.com/microsoft/azurechatgpt)

- Azure ChatGPT is an enterprise solution by Microsoft that offers a private and secure user experience similar to ChatGPT.
- The solution prioritizes data privacy and provides network isolation and enterprise-grade security controls.
- It allows integration with internal data sources and services, and contributions to the project are encouraged following Microsoft's open source code of conduct.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37112741)

- Azure ChatGPT is a new private and secure ChatGPT tool designed for internal enterprise use.
- Users compare Azure ChatGPT to other models like Llama 2 and discuss their performance and capabilities.
- The conversation brings up concerns about data privacy, data retention policies, and the trustworthiness of using OpenAI and Microsoft Azure.
- The importance of data quality and quantity in model performance is explored.
- Users also speculate on Microsoft's plans to integrate LLM features into Azure and Office365.
- OpenAI's changes to its data usage and retention policies are mentioned, emphasizing the need for explicit permission to use customer-submitted data.

## [Downloading a video should be “fair use” as recording a song from the radio](https://mastodon.social/@HalvarFlake/110883667162838296)

- Mastodon is a decentralized social network with a large user base of 335,000 active users on its mastodon.social server.
- The platform is hosting discussions about the legality of downloading YouTube videos and the potential impact on fair use rights.
- Users are comparing the traditional practice of recording songs from the radio onto cassette tapes, considered fair use, with the act of downloading and distributing DRM-free videos, which copyright holders view as a financial risk.
- The conversation includes debates on DRM protection, time-shifting, and German copyright laws.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37112615)

- The article delves into the ongoing debate on whether downloading videos from YouTube constitutes fair use or copyright infringement.
- It highlights the role of the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) in enforcing copyright laws.
- The discussion covers topics such as DRM on YouTube, copy protection circumvention, the effectiveness of copyright protection measures, and the interpretation of the DMCA, raising concerns about the limitations and implications of copyright law in the face of technological advancements.

## [PDF Tool – Modify PDFs in the browser without uploading](https://www.pdftool.org)

- PDF-Tools is a website that offers free and secure PDF modifications without requiring users to upload their files.
- The website uses modern technology and ensures that sensitive data remains on the user's device.
- Users can access various tools such as encryption, decryption, optimization, merging, rotation, and page removal of PDFs on the website. It is available in multiple languages and includes legal information and licenses.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37110628)

- Users are discussing a browser tool called PDF Tool that enables offline PDF modifications, but express concerns about trusting the tool and its offline capabilities.
- The conversation explores alternative tools for editing PDFs and discusses different methods and tools for editing and manipulating PDF files.
- Trustworthiness and risks of using WebAssembly in a PDF tool are also questioned, highlighting the challenges of controlling network activity and disabling internet access.

## [A video game where you are an operating system](https://plbrault.com/blog-posts/i-created-the-nerdierst-game-ever-en/)

- The author developed a nerdy video game where players assume the role of an operating system and must manage CPU cores, processes, memory pages, and swap space to avoid frustrating the user.
- The game includes various elements such as processes, CPUs, I/O events, and different difficulty levels.
- While the game is designed for playability rather than realism, it can also serve as an educational tool for computer science students to learn about operating system principles.
- The game has been compiled to WebAssembly, allowing it to be played in web browsers.
- It is available for play on itch.io, and the source code is open source on GitHub.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37115626)

- The article explores a video game concept in which players take on the role of an operating system and perform tasks akin to managing resources and multitasking in real life.
- The concept of the game draws mixed reviews, with some finding it intriguing while others feel it lacks enjoyment.
- Participants in the discussion show enthusiasm for the idea and provide suggestions for improving the gameplay experience, highlighting its potential educational value.

## [Toki Pona: an attempted universal language with only ~120 words](https://cohost.org/mcc/post/59045-mi-kama-sona-e-toki)

- The author shares their personal experience learning Toki Pona, a minimalist language.
- Unique features of Toki Pona are discussed and compared to Esperanto.
- The passage mentions the challenges of learning Toki Pona and available resources for learners.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37113307)

- The discussion focuses on the constructed language Toki Pona and its suitability as a universal language.
- Participants highlight the simplicity of Toki Pona and its potential for creativity and expression.
- However, limitations include difficulties in expressing complex concepts and specific vocabulary, as well as challenges in accurate translation.

## [Show HN: I wrote a RDBMS (SQLite clone) from scratch in pure Python](https://github.com/spandanb/learndb-py)

- The writer created a relational database management system (RDBMS) using Python from scratch, without relying on any pre-existing frameworks or libraries.
- This demonstrates the writer's skill and knowledge in both Python programming and database management principles.
- The development process likely involved significant time and effort, as creating an RDBMS without using existing tools requires a deep understanding of database concepts and implementation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37114141)

- The author has developed LearnDB, a relational database management system in Python that is built on SQLite.
- LearnDB aims to replicate SQLite and includes a parser and a B+tree implementation, focusing on educational purposes.
- The project does not offer advanced features and is intended for learning rather than production use.

## [Judge denies HP's plea to throw out all-in-one printer lockdown lawsuit](https://www.theregister.com/2023/08/11/judge_denies_hps_request_to/)

- HP's motion to dismiss a lawsuit filed by owners of HP all-in-one printers has been denied, allowing the case to proceed.
- Plaintiffs argue that HP intentionally disabled non-printing functions when ink levels were low, without informing buyers.
- HP has previously faced legal action over printer lockdown issues, and Canon settled a similar case in late 2021.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37113336)

- A judge has rejected HP's attempt to dismiss a lawsuit accusing them of anti-consumer practices related to their all-in-one printers.
- The Hacker News discussion considers the idea of developing a fully open source printer and evaluates the quality and dependability of Brother laser printers.
- Participants analyze the advantages and disadvantages of inkjet printers and laser printers for various printing requirements and express dissatisfaction with issues such as expensive ink, printer restrictions, and minimal industry innovation.

## [The elite's war on remote work has nothing to do with productivity](https://www.okdoomer.io/heres-why-they-want-you-back-at-the-office-so-bad/)

- The push for remote work is motivated by the desire to avoid a commercial real estate crash rather than increasing productivity.
- The pandemic has highlighted the flaws of traditional office environments, such as distractions and meaningless tasks.
- The real estate industry is facing a crisis due to the popularity of remote work, with potential bankruptcies for landlords and vacant office spaces.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37111855)

- The discussions revolve around remote work, real estate, capitalism, socialism, unions, and their effects on employees and society.
- Some argue that the push for remote work is driven by increased productivity, while others suggest it may be influenced by elites or politicians trying to protect real estate values.
- There are debates on the definitions of capitalism and socialism, the role of managers, biases, and human interaction in the workplace, and the importance of unions in protecting workers' rights.

## [‘I've got nothing to hide’ and other misunderstandings of privacy (2007)](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=998565)

- The research paper by Professor Daniel Solove analyzes the "nothing to hide" argument used in privacy and surveillance discussions.
- The paper disputes the claim that individuals with nothing to hide should not be concerned about privacy.
- Solove challenges the belief that privacy is only significant for those involved in illegal activities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37112625)

- The forum discussions center around the argument of "I've got nothing to hide" regarding privacy and surveillance.
- Participants discuss government surveillance, free speech, police violence, privacy breaches, and historical examples of misuse of private information.
- The importance of protecting personal information and privacy as a fundamental right is emphasized due to the potential risks and consequences of a lack of privacy.

## [Today I realized I now trust Microsoft more than Google. What is happening?](https://old.reddit.com/r/degoogle/comments/15pd5si/today_i_realized_i_now_trust_microsoft_more_than/)

- Users on Reddit are discussing the increasing trust in Microsoft compared to Google, citing concerns about search results and privacy issues.
- Many users express a preference for Microsoft products like VS Code and GitHub, highlighting their trust in these platforms.
- Alternative options for storage and software are discussed, indicating a desire for alternatives outside of the Microsoft and Google ecosystems. The conversation also touches on concerns about telemetry and privacy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37111317)

- The discussion focuses on trust and concerns surrounding tech companies like Microsoft and Google.
- Some users prefer Microsoft's VSCode over Google Chrome, citing issues of trust with Google.
- Topics such as privacy, data tracking, monetization of user data, and control by tech companies are also discussed.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Azure ChatGPT: Private and secure ChatGPT for internal enterprise use" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Azure%20ChatGPT:%20Private%20and%20secure%20ChatGPT%20for%20internal%20enterprise%20use&subheading=Monday,%20August%2014,%202023:%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
