---
slug: '/2023/08/18'
---

# 2023-08-18

## [How to communicate when trust is low without digging yourself into a deeper hole](https://charity.wtf/2023/08/17/how-to-communicate-when-trust-is-low-without-digging-yourself-into-a-deeper-hole/)

- Effective communication is essential for rebuilding trust in relationships.
- The author provides various tips for effective communication, including acknowledging the difficulty of the conversation, checking in afterwards, and speaking tentatively.
- Other tips include using techniques like "the story in my head," engineering positive interactions, and valuing effort in communication.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37166946)

- The article emphasizes the significance of effective communication in low-trust situations.
- Making sacrifices to rebuild trust is discussed, but the challenges and uncertainties involved are highlighted.
- Various topics related to communication are touched upon, such as the use of language fillers, cultural differences, and the potential misinterpretation of written communication.
- Note: The mention of a controversial CEO, a CTO, and genital mutilation should be considered as unrelated and not part of the main discussion.

## [StarLite 12.5-inch Linux tablet](https://us.starlabs.systems/pages/starlite)

- Star Labs offers the StarLite laptop, a compact and powerful device designed for portability.
- The laptop features an Intel Alder Lake N200 processor, 16GB memory, and a 12.5-inch 3k touch display.
- It is powered by open-source firmware, offering secure boot flow and firmware customization. The laptop also includes features like a backlit keyboard, crystal-clear touch display, a small charger with a large battery, and easy firmware updates.
- The laptop is highly customizable and comes with various distribution options.
- The starting price is $498, and payment options are available.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37169696)

- The discussions cover multiple aspects of Linux devices, including compatibility with tablets, USB-C technology, durability of USB-C cables, marketing of Linux phones, support for older devices, power consumption, and a new Linux tablet called Star Lite Mk V.
- Users have mixed opinions on these topics, pointing out challenges and potential improvements in the Linux market.
- Other discussions touch on device features, repairability, and alternative processors.

## [Job Corps: free, residential training and education for low-income young adults](https://www.jobcorps.gov/)

- Job Corps is a free program that offers training and education in over 100 areas across 10 industries for low-income young adults.
- It provides free housing, meals, medical care, and a living allowance.
- The program has helped many individuals succeed in fields like advanced manufacturing, information technology, healthcare, construction, and hospitality.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37166478)

- The conversation covers a range of topics, such as the Job Corps program, support for young adults, age limits, and financial aid.
- There is a discussion about NEETs (Not in Education, Employment, or Training) and the need for structured programs to support them.
- The conversation explores the lack of support for unemployed individuals, military behavior management, education, and financial aid, societal values, and government spending and tax cuts.

## [1.56M dehumidifiers recalled due to fire and burn hazards](https://www.theverge.com/2023/8/16/23835116/have-you-seen-these-dehumidifiers-stop-using-them-or-you-might-die)

- The US Consumer Product Safety Commission has issued multiple recalls for dehumidifiers sold under various brand names like Frigidaire, GE, and Kenmore.
- These dehumidifiers have been linked to fatal fires, prompting urgent action from consumers.
- Consumers are advised to check the provided images and if they have a matching dehumidifier, they should request a refund and remove it from their homes promptly.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37164155)

- A total of 1.56 million dehumidifiers have been recalled due to fire hazards, with reports of fires, overheating, and property damage.
- The recall applies to models sold between 2011 and 2014, prompting discussions about personal experiences and alternative dehumidifying methods.
- The conversation also highlights concerns regarding compressors, flammable refrigerants, and the importance of transparency and accountability from manufacturers.

## [China’s property giant Evergrande files for bankruptcy protection in Manhattan](https://www.cnbc.com/2023/08/18/china-property-developer-evergrande-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-in-us.html)

- Evergrande Group, a major Chinese property company, has filed for Chapter 15 bankruptcy protection in a US court.
- The company is heavily in debt and has been undergoing restructuring proceedings in Hong Kong, the Cayman Islands, and the British Virgin Islands.
- Evergrande's shares have been suspended since March 2022, and there are concerns that the troubles in China's property sector could have broader economic repercussions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37171187)

- Evergrande, a major Chinese property company, has filed for bankruptcy protection in Manhattan, raising concerns about the stability of China's real estate market.
- The Chinese government's approach to failing real estate companies involves controlled defaults, with state-owned lenders and banks bearing the losses.
- There are allegations of financial wrongdoing and the government enforces exit bans and strict supervision. The broader crisis in China's real estate sector is seen as controllable due to the government's tools and plans, but corruption and bribery remain issues.

## [Turmoil, a framework for developing and testing distributed systems](https://tokio.rs/blog/2023-01-03-announcing-turmoil)

- Turmoil is a new framework designed to help developers and testers work on distributed systems.
- The framework allows for simulating hosts, time, and the network in a single process, making it easier to test and develop distributed systems.
- With Turmoil, developers have fine-grained control over the network, enabling them to drop, hold, or delay messages between hosts.
- The blog post provides instructions on how to use Turmoil and encourages users to provide feedback for future development and improvement.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37163187)

- Turmoil is a Rust-based framework designed for developing and testing distributed systems.
- It offers deterministic execution by simulating multiple concurrent hosts in a single thread and introduces "hardship" through simulated network changes.
- While some users appreciate Turmoil for providing a controlled testing environment, others argue that a comprehensive distributed testing framework should support different languages, realistic payloads and failures, and offer more helpful diagnostics.

## [SUSE to go private](https://www.suse.com/news/EQT-announces-voluntary-public-purchase-offer-and-intention-to-delist-SUSE/)

- EQT Private Equity, the majority shareholder of SUSE Linux Enterprise, plans to take the company private by delisting it from the Frankfurt Stock Exchange.
- EQT will make a voluntary public purchase offer to buy the shares of other SUSE shareholders before the delisting, offering EUR 16.00 per share, which is a 67 percent premium on the XETRA closing share price.
- SUSE's Management Board and Supervisory Board support the delisting, as it will allow the company to focus on its operational priorities and long-term strategy. The offer document will be published soon, with settlement expected in October 2023.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37166885)

- SUSE, a Linux distribution company, is planning to go private and be acquired by private equity firm EQT.
- The announcement has sparked discussions among users and Linux enthusiasts, with some showing optimism for SUSE's performance and innovative projects.
- However, concerns have been raised regarding SUSE's distribution and the potential impact of private equity ownership, especially during a period of restructuring.

## [I am afraid to inform you that you have built a compiler (2022)](https://rachit.pl/post/you-have-built-a-compiler/)

- The author humorously describes a developer who unintentionally builds a compiler despite their initial reluctance.
- The developer faces challenges with the abstract syntax tree (AST) library and handling different AST nodes.
- They encounter difficulties supporting nested code structures and dealing with compatibility issues for older machines.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37162898)

- The discussions cover diverse topics, including billing clients for efficient projects, creating custom programming languages and tools, unintended consequences of building software, and limitations of existing transport protocols.
- Clear communication, practical solutions, and avoiding unnecessary complexity are emphasized as critical factors in these discussions.
- The discussions provide valuable insights into the challenges and considerations involved in software development and project management.

## [SUSE to Go Private](https://opensourcewatch.beehiiv.com/p/suse-go-private)

- SUSE, the European open-source software company, is set to go private as its majority owner, Marcel LUX III SARL, plans to merge the company into an unlisted Luxembourg entity.
- EQT Private Equity, controlled by EQT VIII fund entities, will launch a public purchase offer to the remaining shareholders, offering a 67% premium on the closing share price.
- SUSE's management and supervisory boards are in support of the delisting, as they believe it will allow the company to focus on its long-term strategy without the pressure from public markets. The offer is expected to be settled in October 2023.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37169303)

- SUSE, an open-source software company, is going private following a purchase offer from a private equity firm.
- The intention behind the purchase offer is to delist the company.
- Going private means that SUSE will no longer be a publicly traded company.

## [micro – A Modern Alternative to nano](https://micro-editor.github.io/)

- Micro is a user-friendly and easily installable modern text editor.
- It offers customization options through a simple json format and Lua scripting, along with features like multiple cursors, a plugin system, and mouse support.
- Users appreciate Micro for its simplicity and functionality, and can report bugs on GitHub or engage in informal discussions on Gitter chat.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37171294)

- The article examines various text editors, such as nano, micro, vi, and others, and users discuss their experiences and preferences.
- Topics covered include installation, running scripts with sudo privileges, features, resource usage, syntax highlighting, and keybindings.
- Opinions differ on the best editor for different tasks, with some users favoring simpler options like nano and others preferring more powerful editors like vi/vim or Emacs. The choice of an editor depends on individual requirements and preferences.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="How to communicate when trust is low without digging yourself into a deeper hole" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=How%20to%20communicate%20when%20trust%20is%20low%20without%20digging%20yourself%20into%20a%20deeper%20hole&subheading=Friday,%20August%2018,%202023:%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
