---
slug: '/2023/08/19'
---

# 2023-08-19

## [Ask vs. Guess Culture](https://jeanhsu.substack.com/p/ask-vs-guess-culture)

- The article explores the concept of ask culture vs guess culture and how it impacts relationships and interactions.
- Ask culture involves directly asking for what you want, while guess culture relies on reading indirect cues and only asking if confident of a positive response.
- The article provides examples of clashes between these cultural norms and offers strategies for navigating a guess culture in a primarily ask culture work environment.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37176703)

- The article discusses cultural differences in communication and social etiquette, particularly between "ask" culture and "guess" culture.
- Personal experiences and anecdotes are shared to illustrate cultural clashes in relationships.
- The article touches on topics such as childhood trauma, therapy effectiveness, the impact of minor traumas on relationships, resilience, and the importance of understanding and respecting cultural differences.

## [Mister Rogers had a point – routinely greeting six neighbors maximizes wellbeing](https://news.gallup.com/poll/509543/saying-hello-linked-higher-wellbeing-limits.aspx)

- Saying hello to multiple neighbors is associated with higher wellbeing in adults in the US, according to a study by Gallup.
- Americans' wellbeing score increases as the number of neighbors greeted increases, up to a maximum of six neighbors.
- Greeting neighbors is more common among older adults and those with higher incomes, and it is linked to improvements in social, community, career, physical, and financial wellbeing.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37175432)

- Social interaction, including greetings and interactions with neighbors, is crucial for overall well-being and community engagement.
- The article explores different perspectives on social anxiety and cultural differences in greetings, as well as the impact of the pandemic on social interactions.
- Building connections and cultivating a sense of community have numerous benefits and are influenced by both physical and social environments. intentional efforts to interact with others are essential.

## [The FBI proves again it can’t be trusted with Section 702](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2023/07/deja-vu-fbi-proves-again-it-cant-be-trusted-section-702)

- The FBI has been found accessing private communications of a state senator and a U.S. senator without following proper rules and limitations.
- The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) revealed this information in a declassified opinion, emphasizing the FBI's disregard for privacy and civil liberties.
- There is bipartisan support for significant changes or termination of Section 702, which authorizes the collection of overseas communications. The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) is advocating for the closure of warrantless access to U.S. communications and increased transparency in any renewal of Section 702.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37176717)

- The conversation raises concerns about unauthorized searches by the FBI and corruption within the federal government.
- It also highlights abuse of power by intelligence agencies and violations of privacy rights.
- The discussion emphasizes the need for law enforcement accountability, reform, stronger oversight, and safeguards to protect civil liberties.

## [Windows 11 will happily execute a binary compiled 30 years ago](https://twitter.com/mikko/status/1692503249595584526)

- Windows 11 showcases impressive backwards compatibility as it can run a binary compiled 30 years ago, specifically from August 18, 1993.
- This highlights Microsoft's commitment to ensuring compatibility with legacy software.
- It signifies that users can still access and run older applications on the latest version of Windows without any issues.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37176666)

- The discussion revolves around the concept of backwards compatibility in operating systems, particularly for Windows and Linux.
- Participants explore the challenges and debates surrounding backwards compatibility, such as the preservation of cultural value and the associated costs.
- Issues with forced software updates, Microsoft's reputation, and the difficulties of porting software between platforms are mentioned, along with the varying degrees of backwards compatibility across different operating systems. The need for an organization to maintain old versions of system libraries to ensure compatibility is proposed.

## [Textual: Rapid Application Development framework for Python](https://github.com/Textualize/textual)

- Textualize is a Rapid Application Development framework for Python that enables developers to create advanced user interfaces in the terminal and, in the future, in web browsers.
- It offers various features like mouse support, 16.7 million colors, and smooth animations.
- Textualize is compatible with Linux, macOS, and Windows and requires Python 3.7 or above. It can be easily installed via pip and provides documentation, examples, and a Discord community for support.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37174657)

- Textual is a Python framework for creating terminal applications, and there is an upcoming web browser version being discussed.
- Users are talking about features like "DirectoryTree" support and sharing preferences for text editors and coding practices.
- The debate is centered around the advantages and disadvantages of using frameworks in software development, taking into account project requirements and skill levels. The discussion also covers the challenges and benefits of software upgrades and framework usage, with a focus on security, resource management, and flexibility.

## [C and C++ prioritize performance over correctness](https://research.swtch.com/ub)

- Prioritizing performance over correctness in C and C++ programming languages can result in broken programs.
- Issues with uninitialized variables, null pointers, and undefined behavior are common in C and C++ due to this prioritization.
- The Go programming language is presented as an alternative with a different philosophy that prioritizes safety and security.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37178009)

- The discussions revolve around programming languages and their suitability for different tasks, such as prioritizing performance or safety features.
- C and C++ are considered to prioritize performance but may lack safety features compared to languages like Rust.
- There is a debate about the limitations and benefits of Rust compared to C++ and the importance of addressing the gap between high-level languages and hardware.

## [Broadband monopolies push bill that would crush the ability to stand up to them](https://www.techdirt.com/2023/08/18/with-hr-3557-broadband-monopolies-are-pushing-a-bill-that-would-crush-your-towns-ability-to-stand-up-to-them/)

- Telecom giants are seeking to limit local government's authority over telecom infrastructure through proposed legislation, leading to consumer frustration.
- Local governments are expressing a growing interest in establishing their own fiber networks, contributing to the push for increased control.
- The conversation also encompasses various issues such as the removal of headphone jacks on phones, ongoing investigations involving Trump, and difficulties associated with online anonymity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37175200)

- Consumers in the United States face challenges and frustrations in obtaining reliable and affordable internet service.
- Concerns are raised about broadband monopolies, lack of regulation, and competition in the industry.
- Suggestions include treating internet infrastructure as a public utility and creating separate entities for infrastructure.

## [Learning async Rust with entirely too many web servers](https://ibraheem.ca/posts/too-many-web-servers/)

- The article focuses on learning asynchronous programming in Rust by building multiple web servers.
- It covers various topics including concurrent programming with threads, non-blocking I/O, efficient event handling with epoll, implementing a reactor and scheduler, creating futures and using closures, handling TCP connections, and graceful shutdown.
- The article provides code snippets and detailed explanations to demonstrate the concepts and techniques involved in building efficient and responsive servers using asynchronous programming in Rust.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37176960)

- The article focuses on the difficulties of learning async Rust and managing multiple web servers.
- It provides examples and resources for debugging and learning async Rust.
- Commenters share their experiences and suggest additional resources for building web backends in Rust, discussing the benefits and challenges of async programming.

## [Police are getting DNA data from people who think they opted out](https://theintercept.com/2023/08/18/gedmatch-dna-police-forensic-genetic-genealogy/)

- Forensic genetic genealogists are using a loophole in the GEDmatch DNA database to access DNA data from individuals who have opted out of sharing with law enforcement.
- This technique has helped solve cold cases, but it raises concerns about privacy and the lack of regulation.
- Ancestry and 23andMe do not allow law enforcement access, but MyHeritage and GEDmatch do with user consent, and GEDmatch has a loophole for protected profiles.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37179094)

- The use of DNA data by law enforcement raises concerns about privacy violations and abuse of genetic information.
- There is a loophole that allows genealogists working with law enforcement to access profiles of individuals who have opted out of sharing their DNA.
- The lack of public outrage and political attention towards these privacy violations is concerning and raises broader questions about government oversight, personal freedoms, and ethical issues associated with DNA databases.

## [Worldcoin ignored initial order to stop iris scans in Kenya, records show](https://techcrunch.com/2023/08/15/worldcoin-in-kenya/)

- Crypto startup Worldcoin defied an order from the Office of the Data Protection Commissioner (ODPC) in Kenya to halt the collection of personal data, including iris scans.
- The ODPC had previously directed Worldcoin to stop collecting data in May, but the company persisted until it was suspended by the Ministry of Interior and Administration in August.
- The ODPC has taken legal action to preserve the data collected by Worldcoin while investigations into security, privacy, and legality issues are underway.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37174758)

- The controversy surrounding Worldcoin and their use of iris scans in Kenya is discussed, raising concerns about privacy and data security.
- Ride-sharing services like Uber and Airbnb are examined, with discussions on the impact of these platforms on traditional industries and concerns about labor rights and safety regulations.
- The role of regulation in the tech industry is explored, with considerations on the need for oversight to protect consumers and prevent negative consequences such as monopolies and unethical practices.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Ask vs. Guess Culture" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Ask%20vs.%20Guess%20Culture&subheading=Saturday,%20August%2019,%202023:%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
