---
slug: '/2023/08/20'
---

# 2023-08-20

## [Amsterdam to use “noise cameras” against too loud cars](https://nltimes.nl/2023/08/11/amsterdam-use-noise-cameras-loud-cars)

- Amsterdam has implemented "noise cameras" to address the issue of noisy vehicles in the city.
- Electric road signs have been placed to alert drivers if their vehicles are too loud, and these signs will later be replaced by noise cameras that will automatically issue fines to offending drivers.
- Noise signs will be tested in two locations initially, with plans to install more sound meters and signs throughout the month. This initiative aims to minimize noise disturbances in the city. Rotterdam is also partnering with Amsterdam on a similar experiment.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37187837)

- Amsterdam is planning to use "noise cameras" to tackle the problem of excessive noise from cars and motorcycles in the city.
- The debate surrounding this issue is focused on the necessity and impact of loud motorcycles, with some arguing for their safety benefits and others criticizing their annoyance.
- There is also a broader discussion about noise pollution, pedestrian behavior, vehicle modifications, and the promotion of quieter and electric alternatives.
- Residents are advocating for a ban on gas-powered vehicles and the promotion of electric mopeds to create a quieter city environment.

## [How do we pay for parking?](https://cohost.org/cathoderaydude/post/2521077-hahaha-we-live-in-he)

- The author shares a frustrating experience assisting an elderly woman with parking apps and highlights the challenges and limitations of the system.
- Users in a conversation express concerns about the complexity of parking apps, reliance on smartphones, and potential financial implications.
- Suggestions are made for a unified app or eliminating the need for parking apps altogether, and privatization and revenue issues in cities are mentioned. The author advocates for analog options for parking payment, particularly for older individuals, and expresses frustration with complex digital systems and a lack of improvement in daily lives despite technological advancements.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37192858)

- Participants express frustrations with fraudulent parking apps, limited payment options, and dehumanized customer service.
- Concerns are raised about corruption, organized crime, and privacy and security in the parking industry.
- Technology is seen as creating complex and inconvenient experiences, and there is a desire for simplicity and problem-solving in the industry.

## [Windy.com: global weather website with live filters](https://www.windy.com)

- The text mentions multiple cities and locations in the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Cuba.
- It also highlights Hurricane Hilary approaching the West Coast.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37187760)

- Users on Hacker News are discussing the features and accuracy of the weather app Windy.com.
- Some users praise its accuracy and its ability to compare wind forecast models.
- Others mention concerns about recent changes and display issues on certain devices, as well as recommending alternative weather apps.

## [Aviation navigation log on $20 receipt printer](https://carloslagoa.com/blog/flipreps/flipreps.html)

- Carlos shares his flight training experiences and highlights the difficulties of managing information in a small cockpit.
- He developed a project using a receipt printer to create a navigation log that improves his flight experience.
- Carlos expresses his enthusiasm for technology and his intention to continue developing the project in the future.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37190743)

- A $20 receipt printer is being used for aviation navigation logging, but users are concerned about the paper becoming unreadable due to heat and the presence of BPA in thermal paper.
- The article discusses various navigation systems and instruments used in different activities, highlighting the advancements in technology and limitations of certain methods.
- The author shares their project of using a receipt printer for navigation logs and recommends buying locally or asking businesses for available printers. Other readers also show interest in using receipt printers for different purposes.

## [Why do old books smell so good?](https://scienceswitch.com/2023/08/19/why-do-old-books-smell-so-good/)

- Scientists are studying the distinct smell of old books and using the volatile organic compounds (VOCs) released to determine their age, condition, and history.
- The smell of old books is caused by the breakdown of paper and other organic compounds, releasing specific compounds like benzaldehyde, vanillin, ethylbenzene, and 2-ethyl hexanol.
- VOC analysis can help librarians and historians identify preservation needs and match orphaned books with their original libraries.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37188015)

- The Hacker News discussion explores various topics, including the scent of old books, the nostalgia connected to technology, technological advancements, health concerns, and the ongoing debate between physical books and ebooks.
- There is a brief mention of the concept of a digital nose and the possibility of synthesizing smells.

## [Stable Diffusion in C/C++](https://github.com/leejet/stable-diffusion.cpp)

- This repository contains a C/C++ implementation of Stable Diffusion, a technique for generating images.
- It offers support for different precisions, quantizations, and platforms.
- The repository includes instructions for downloading weights, building and running the code, as well as information about memory and disk requirements.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37187663)

- The discussion examines the performance, suitability, and limitations of Stable Diffusion (SD), GGML, AITemplate, and Tinygrad on various hardware platforms.
- Challenges with matrix multiplication in GGML and the complexities of managing dependencies and environments in machine learning are highlighted.
- The benefits and limitations of using C++ and Rust as programming languages for optimization are explored, along with personal experiences and recommendations for improving performance.

## [Rivet – Open-source game server management with Nomad and Rust](https://github.com/rivet-gg/rivet)

- Rivet is an open-source game server management tool designed to simplify the deployment of dedicated servers for game developers without infrastructure experience.
- It is built primarily using Rust and Lua, with integration of other tools and libraries.
- Rivet supports various features such as edge proxies, caching, analytics, overlay networks, and Redis Lua scripts.
- It is licensed under Apache 2.0 and aims to be an accessible and comprehensive game server manager.
- Rivet does not handle networking logic but works in conjunction with existing tools.
- It has been in closed beta since January 2022 and supports millions of monthly active users across multiple titles.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37188659)

- The discussion focuses on game development infrastructure challenges and the advantages of open-source tools.
- Rivet, an open-source game server management tool, is highly regarded for its ability to efficiently deploy dedicated servers.
- The conversation also explores the benefits and drawbacks of using Kubernetes and Nomad for game development, with a developer expressing interest in utilizing Rivet for their own game.
- The Rivet team acknowledges the need for enhancements in local development and discusses topics such as open-source features, Nakama, HashiCorp license changes, and Bevy support.

## [Clone-a-Lisa](https://vole.wtf/clone-a-lisa/)

- Clone-a Lisa is a game where players race against the clock to paint a replica of the Mona Lisa in just 60 seconds.
- The game can be accessed on the website VOLE.wtf and includes sound effects for added immersion.
- It offers a fun and challenging experience that puts players' painting skills to the test in a limited timeframe.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37192710)

- "Clone-a-Lisa" is an engaging game that tasks users with creating a replica of the famous Mona Lisa painting.
- The game utilizes a limited color palette and scores the user based on the deviation from the original artwork, with emphasis on the darker areas.
- Players have discovered alternative strategies, like filling the canvas with a solid color, to achieve high scores. The game also provides features for viewing and comparing paintings and sharing feedback with other players.

## [Cellebrite asks cops to keep its technology secret](https://techcrunch.com/2023/08/19/cellebrite-asks-cops-to-keep-its-phone-hacking-tech-hush-hush/)

- Phone hacking technology company Cellebrite is asking law enforcement agencies to keep their technology usage secret, raising concerns about transparency and defendants' rights.
- Critics argue that disclosure is important for evaluating evidence and protecting privacy.
- Government contractor Harris Corporation has made similar requests for secrecy regarding their cellphone surveillance tool.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37194272)

- Participants in the discussion raise concerns about the reliability and potential misuse of Cellebrite, a software used by law enforcement agencies for extracting data from smartphones.
- The validity of certain forensic techniques and the use of polygraph tests are questioned, exhibiting skepticism towards their effectiveness.
- The conversation highlights the challenges in ensuring data security, the legal implications of acquiring evidence through Cellebrite, and references the Apple vs FBI controversy, bringing up concerns about device security and data protection.

## [WD refused to answer our questions about its self-wiping SanDisk SSDs](https://www.theverge.com/23837513/western-digital-sandisk-ssd-corrupted-deleted-questions)

- Western Digital's SanDisk SSDs are reportedly causing data loss, and the company has been unresponsive to inquiries about the issue.
- Multiple reports of data loss have emerged, including from employees at The Verge and Ars Technica.
- Western Digital continues to sell the SSDs despite being aware of the problem, and the company's head of PR has refused to address the issue.
- Allegations have been made that Western Digital is using fake Amazon reviews and manipulating search results to downplay the failures.
- The company is now facing multiple class-action lawsuits over the SanDisk SSD failures.
- Western Digital has also been accused of deceptive practices, such as attempting to include subpar drives in its product lineup and triggering unnecessary warnings on its NAS disks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37188736)

- Online forums are hosting discussions on the reliability and quality of storage solutions like SSDs and HDDs, with users sharing their experiences and concerns about various brands and models.
- Firmware issues and warranty claims are among the topics discussed, highlighting the importance of reliable and efficient customer service in the technology industry.
- Brands like Western Digital and SanDisk face reputation damage due to customer complaints and class-action lawsuits, leading users to explore alternative brands like SK Hynix and Samsung known for their reliability.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Amsterdam to use “noise cameras” against too loud cars" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Amsterdam%20to%20use%20%E2%80%9Cnoise%20cameras%E2%80%9D%20against%20too%20loud%20cars&subheading=Sunday,%20August%2020,%202023:%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
