---
slug: '/2023/08/21'
---

# 2023-08-21

## [Kris Nóva has died](https://nivenly.org/blog/2023/08/19/an-announcement-regarding-kris-n%C3%B3va/)

- Kris Nóva, the influential leader and mentor of Nivenly, has sadly passed away, leaving behind a legacy of professionalism and vision.
- The Nivenly community is mourning the loss of Kris Nóva and grappling with the next steps for the future.
- It is unclear at this time how the Nivenly community will navigate the path forward without Kris Nóva's guidance and expertise.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37199495)

- Kris Nóva, a notable figure in the open-source industry, has sadly passed away due to a climbing accident.
- She is recognized for her contributions to the tech industry and her inspiring work.
- The discourse surrounding her death includes discussions on the risks involved in activities like mountaineering and the societal challenges they present.
- There is a debate on the social skills of individuals with autism and the importance of clear inclusivity guidelines.
- The author opposes the belief that people with autism cannot learn social skills and emphasizes the need for effort and a different perspective on social interaction.
- The author also questions the insufficient attention given to a specific story on the website.

## [Shouldn't distant objects appear magnified?](https://astronomy.stackexchange.com/questions/54499/shouldnt-very-very-distant-objects-appear-magnified)

- The Astronomy Stack Exchange is a platform for astronomers and astrophysicists to engage in Q&A.
- A user raises a question about why very distant objects don't appear magnified.
- Another user clarifies that the expansion of space does cause magnification, although it becomes noticeable at a specific distance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37198954)

- The expanding universe and finite speed of light contribute to distant objects appearing magnified.
- Physics concepts such as relativity and quantum mechanics play a role in understanding this phenomenon.
- The speed of light is debated as the maximum speed of causality or for anything traveling through space.
- The Cosmic Microwave Background marks the limit of light and suggests that objects beyond it are not yet visible.
- The discussion also touches on evidence for the expansion of the universe and the limitations of observing distant objects.

## [So you want to learn physics (2021)](https://www.susanrigetti.com/physics)

- Susan Rigetti has released a second edition of her guide to learning physics on your own, incorporating reader feedback and making improvements.
- The guide recommends studying various subjects in physics, starting with calculus and progressing to specialized fields.
- It also suggests popular physics books for broader perspectives, including textbooks on undergraduate and graduate-level physics, as well as advanced topics like general relativity and quantum field theory.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37200615)

- The discussions cover various topics in physics education, including the omission of continuum mechanics and the importance of understanding phenomena like hydraulics and cosmological models.
- Recommendations for non-quantum physics books and discussions on the boundaries between physics and engineering are included.
- The importance of mathematics, particularly calculus, in studying physics, as well as the effectiveness of self-study versus formal education, are debated.

## [Jazz² Resurrection: Open-source Jazz Jackrabbit 2 reimplementation](http://deat.tk/jazz2/)

- Jazz² Resurrection is an open-source reimplementation of the game Jazz Jackrabbit 2, allowing players to experience the classic game on modern platforms.
- The game can be downloaded and played on various platforms, including Windows, Linux, macOS, Android, Nintendo Switch, and web browsers.
- The project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 and utilizes the modified nCine game engine, providing a versatile and customizable gaming experience.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37202727)

- Users engage in a discussion about Jazz Jackrabbit 2 and its open-source reimplementation, sharing their experiences and memories of playing the game.
- Recommendations for similar platformers are made by the participants, showcasing their interest in exploring similar retro games.
- The conversation extends its scope to discuss game development, specifically the challenges of implementing multiplayer support, and touches on the concept of abandonware and the availability of the game on various platforms.

## [We’re All Just Temporarily Abled](https://blog.jim-nielsen.com/2023/temporarily-abled/)

- The author injures their knee during their vacation and contemplates the fleeting nature of physical ability.
- They express appreciation for accessibility aids that assist them during their recovery.
- The author acknowledges their privilege in having a job that permits them to take the necessary time off for healing.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37205731)

- The article explores the benefits and potential risks of strength training programs like Starting Strength.
- It highlights the importance of listening to one's body, setting individual goals, and prioritizing long-term health and injury prevention in intense strength training.
- The conversation covers topics such as the risk of injuries in powerlifting and bodybuilding, the use of machines versus free weights, and the significance of proper form and good coaching.

## [Electricity Maps](https://app.electricitymaps.com)

- The list ranks countries and regions based on the carbon intensity of their electricity consumption, indicating the environmental impact of their energy usage.
- The data used for the ranking is sourced from Electricity Maps, an open-source platform that visualizes the climate impact of electricity.
- The app not only provides information but also allows users to contribute by adding their own regions or countries to the list. Additionally, it offers historical data and enables users to view carbon intensity levels over different time periods.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37197903)

- Various websites are available that provide live data on electricity usage, weather, flight and satellite tracking, railways, light pollution, and natural disasters.
- The accuracy of the data and sources used on these websites is a significant point of discussion.
- Germany's transition to renewable energy is highlighted, with challenges and limitations in scaling renewable energy, reliance on coal and imported electricity, and the perception that it has not been as successful as anticipated.

## [FreeBSD replaces bubblesort with mergesort on SYSINTs](https://twitter.com/cperciva/status/1693127769901969772)

- FreeBSD (HEAD) has implemented mergesort algorithm to replace the bubblesort algorithm in its SYSINITs.
- This change has resulted in a notable improvement in speed.
- The adoption of mergesort algorithm signifies the commitment of FreeBSD to enhance performance and efficiency in its systems.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37205053)

- FreeBSD has replaced the bubblesort algorithm with mergesort to enhance kernel booting speed for virtual machines.
- A developer has achieved a 100x speedup in FreeBSD's boot time by replacing bubblesort with mergesort.
- Some argue that the original implementation with bubblesort was good enough, while others suggest using insertion sort for better performance.

## [Without belief in a god, but never without belief in a devil](https://www.robkhenderson.com/p/without-belief-in-a-god-but-never)

- The article explores Eric Hoffer's book "The True Believer" and its relevance in understanding the motivations behind mass movements.
- Hoffer argues that frustration plays a crucial role in driving mass movements, which intentionally exploit this frustration among their members.
- The article highlights how polarized politics and the quest for equality contribute to frustration and the emergence of social movements.
- Hoffer also suggests that mass movements offer dissatisfied individuals a sense of purpose and identity.
- The article further mentions Hoffer's observation that hatred is often used as a unifying force in mass movements.
- Overall, the article underscores the dangers of mass movements and their ability to manipulate and take advantage of individual frustrations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37197986)

- The discussion explores the impact of clear goals and the presence of enemies in mass movements.
- Participants debate the polarization caused by social networks and the media, and the influence of ideology and religion.
- The connection between violence, education, and belief systems is also explored, along with the distinction between education and indoctrination.

## [Anxious brains redirect emotion regulation](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-023-40666-3)

- Anxious individuals show overexcitability in the frontopolar cortex (FPl) and rely on other frontal cortex regions for emotion control.
- Stronger connections between the amygdala and FPl are found in anxious individuals.
- The study also reveals a higher ratio of GABA to glutamate in the FPl of anxious individuals, suggesting potential interventions for anxiety disorders.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37205029)

- This conversation delves into the connection between anxiety, fear, and the brain's response to them.
- Various perspectives on anxiety and potential treatment options, such as medication, therapy, and transcranial magnetic stimulation, are explored.
- Mindfulness and self-awareness are acknowledged as valuable techniques for managing fear and anxiety, while gradually confronting fears and taking proactive steps to reduce anxiety are emphasized.

## [An abandoned cabinet full of Kodachrome slides in San Francisco](https://petapixel.com/2023/08/16/the-mystery-of-an-abandoned-cabinet-full-of-kodachrome-slides-in-san-francisco/)

- A cabinet of Kodachrome slides containing captivating photos of San Francisco in the 1960s was discovered on a sidewalk.
- The slides showcase the construction of the Bay Area Rapid Transit system and everyday life in the city.
- The photographer, James Martin, was a schoolteacher who had a passion for San Francisco.
- Two additional cabinets of slides are currently unaccounted for.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37202415)

- A forgotten collection of Kodachrome slides featuring swimmers at a historic pool in San Francisco brings about nostalgia and curiosity.
- The conversation focuses on the difficulties of selling or giving away items online, prompting recommendations for alternative platforms.
- The significance of finding the right recipient for personal collections and the downfall of Kodak as a company is explored, along with personal anecdotes about Kodachrome slides and advice on preservation and scanning.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Kris Nóva has died" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Kris%20N%C3%B3va%20has%20died&subheading=Monday%2C%20August%2021%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
