---
slug: '/2023/08/22'
---

# 2023-08-22

## [uBlock Origin Lite now available on Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/ublock-origin-lite/)

- uBlock Origin Lite is a content blocker extension for Firefox that blocks ads, trackers, and miners.
- The extension uses a declarative approach for efficient filtering and does not require broad permissions at installation.
- Users have the option to grant extended permissions on specific sites for more precise filtering.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37215557)

- Discussions are centered around the use and ethics of ad-blocking extensions, with a focus on uBlock Origin and its various versions.
- The security benefits and limitations of these extensions are being debated, including their ability to reduce potential attack vectors and concerns about compromised updates.
- The ethical implications of ad-blocking, the invasive nature of online advertising, and the impact of browser functionality changes on ad-blockers are also being discussed.

## [GNU Parallel, where have you been all my life?](https://alexplescan.com/posts/2023/08/20/gnu-parallel/)

- The blog post discusses the author's experience using GNU Parallel for gathering statistics on end-to-end test pass/fail rates.
- Parallel execution using GNU Parallel improved performance and offered additional functionality.
- The post emphasizes features of GNU Parallel, such as concurrency control, output capture, and advanced capabilities described in the author's book.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37208083)

- The discussion explores the advantages and usefulness of GNU Parallel compared to shell commands and alternative tools like YSH, Nushell, and Fish in parallel computing.
- Alternative languages like Perl, Python, and Haskell are mentioned as well as tools like zargs in zsh and DASK in Python for parallel processing.
- The debate includes a comparison between CPU cores and GPU WGP/SM, the inclusion of citation notice in the GPL license, and the role of Richard Stallman in interpreting the GPL. The importance of citations in software research and controversy surrounding GNU Parallel's author requesting citations or payment is addressed. The pros and cons of using xargs and parallel for parallel execution and the benefits of using a thread/worker pool are discussed. GNU Parallel is celebrated for its versatility and effectiveness in parallel computing.

## [Don't fire your illustrator](https://sambleckley.com/writing/dont-fire-your-illustrator.html)

- The author explores the use of AI image generators and how they can impact various groups, including physical media artists and commercial illustrators.
- The concept of stable diffusion is explained, along with the challenges of using text to direct image generation.
- AI is predicted to replace certain types of illustration and writing tasks, but achieving specific results can be challenging, and the use of image constraints is suggested. The author emphasizes the importance of AI products that seamlessly integrate into an illustrator's workflow and expresses hope for future AI products catering to commercial illustration.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37210953)

- Artificial intelligence (AI) has the potential to significantly impact the art and music industries.
- Concerns include the decline in revenue for artists and the concentration of wealth in corporations.
- The music industry has already experienced changes due to streaming services, and AI may further disrupt human endeavors.
- AI is also playing a role in music production, raising questions about the value and quality of AI-generated content.
- Copyright issues and the need for new platforms and solutions are topics of debate.
- The overall impact of AI on these industries remains uncertain, with both positive and negative consequences.

## [Saving Lives (2004)](https://www.folklore.org/StoryView.py?story=Saving_Lives.txt)

- Steve Jobs motivated the engineers working on the Macintosh computer to improve the boot time by telling them that every 10 seconds saved would save a dozen lives.
- The engineers succeeded in reducing the boot time by more than 10 seconds in the subsequent months.
- This story highlights Steve Jobs' leadership style and the dedication of the engineers in meeting his expectations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37211230)

- Understanding customer needs and addressing underlying issues is crucial for software developers to prioritize user satisfaction.
- Slow software can negatively impact user experience and should be optimized for faster performance.
- Advancements in hardware and software optimization have led to faster boot times, improving overall user experience.
- ROM-based operating systems have both advantages and disadvantages and should be carefully considered for specific use cases.
- UI animations can enhance user experience, but they should be used judiciously to avoid overwhelming or distracting users.
- SSDs offer significant benefits over HDDs, including faster data access times and improved system responsiveness.
- Saving time in software development is essential for efficiency and productivity.
- Slow updates and insufficient communication platforms can lead to frustration among software users and developers.
- Stack Overflow has received criticism and concerns, highlighting the need for alternative platforms and better moderation.
- When seeking help, it is important to provide clear and actionable information to receive effective assistance.

## [I Made Stable Diffusion XL Smarter by Finetuning It on Bad AI-Generated Images](https://minimaxir.com/2023/08/stable-diffusion-xl-wrong/)

- Max Woolf's blog post introduces Stable Diffusion XL 1.0 (SDXL), an open-source model for generating high-resolution images.
- The author shares his process of using a cloud virtual machine with a midrange L4 GPU and highlights new features in the diffusers Python library.
- The post explores the use of LoRAs for finetuning SDXL, showcases image generation examples with and without LoRAs, and discusses the "wrong prompt" technique to improve AI-generated images.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37211519)

- The author shares their experience in fine-tuning the Stable Diffusion XL model using AI-generated images.
- The article suggests implementing a feedback option for personalized improvements in the model.
- AI Horde and LAION are mentioned as platforms for testing and collecting user preferences in fine-tuning the model.

## [5 years ago Valve released Proton](https://www.gamingonlinux.com/2023/08/5-years-ago-valve-released-proton-forever-changing-linux-gaming/)

- Valve's release of Proton, a modified version of Wine, transformed Linux gaming five years ago by enabling popular games to run on the platform.
- This sparked a surge in Linux gaming and contributed to the creation of the Steam Deck.
- Proton's ongoing enhancements have improved compatibility and performance, granting Linux gamers access to a diverse selection of games, leading to enthusiastic user feedback.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37213479)

- Valve's Proton gaming platform has gained popularity among users as a viable alternative to Windows for gaming on Linux.
- Valve is praised for its customer support and dedication to open source desktop, while Epic is criticized for lacking in these areas.
- Concerns are raised about Epic's exclusivity deals and the decline of DRM-free platforms.

## [The ideal viewport doesn't exist](https://viewports.fyi/)

- The article discusses the fragmentation of screen sizes and browser viewports and the importance of considering this in design decisions.
- The authors conducted an experiment with over 120,000 data points and found that the top viewport sizes were primarily small, potentially mobile devices.
- The article advises against using specific breakpoints and hard values, instead advocating for flexibility and allowing the browser to determine the best outcome based on conditions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37208211)

- The article and comment section delve into the complexities of web design, discussing topics such as viewports, responsiveness, and usability across different devices.
- The conversation emphasizes the challenges faced by designers when dealing with client demands, disabling zooming capabilities, and implementing accessibility features.
- The need for thoughtful and adaptable designs to improve the user experience on various devices is emphasized, along with the limitations of current design tools and the struggles of creating fluid and flexible layouts.

## [Growing share of Americans favor more nuclear power](https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2023/08/18/growing-share-of-americans-favor-more-nuclear-power/)

- A recent survey by Pew Research Center shows that 57% of Americans now support expanding nuclear power in the United States, up from 43% in 2020.
- However, solar power (82%) and wind power (75%) remain more favored by Americans compared to nuclear power.
- Support for nuclear power has increased among both Democrats and Republicans, with men and Republicans being more likely to support it and believe the government should encourage its production. The United States currently has 93 nuclear power reactors, mainly located in the South, but the number has declined since its peak in 1990, potentially due to concerns over accidents and international tensions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37216647)

- The debate surrounding nuclear power is multifaceted, with some arguing for its benefits and others advocating for renewable energy sources like solar and wind.
- Proponents of nuclear power emphasize its cost-effectiveness and environmental friendliness compared to other forms of energy.
- Opponents of nuclear power raise concerns about its high costs, potential dangers, safety issues, regulation, storage of nuclear waste, and the influence of politics and industry on public perception.

## [Podman Desktop celebrates 500k downloads](https://blog.podman.io/2023/08/celebrating-500k-downloads-the-podman-desktop-journey-%f0%9f%8e%89/)

- Podman Desktop, an open-source container project, has achieved a significant milestone with over 500,000 downloads.
- The Podman team expresses gratitude for user contributions and feedback and is committed to enhancing the tool's functionality for Kubernetes usage.
- Users are encouraged to participate in discussions centered around improving Kubernetes support, streamlining feature installation and configuration, and expanding documentation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37216800)

- Users are discussing various container management tools such as Podman, OrbStack, and Docker Desktop.
- They express the need for quicker local development and have concerns about licensing and pricing.
- Users are sharing their experiences and preferences, exploring alternatives to Docker Desktop.

## [Upcoming .com and .xyz domain price increase](https://www.namecheap.com/blog/upcoming-com-and-xyz-domain-price-increase/)

- Namecheap, a domain registrar, is notifying customers about upcoming price increases for .COM and .XYZ domains in September.
- .COM domain renewals will experience a 9% increase across all registrars, including Namecheap.
- Customers are encouraged to renew their .COM domains before September to secure the current rates or explore alternatives to .COM domains.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37211675)

- Namecheap recently raised the prices for renewing .com domains, leading to discussions about the implications for businesses.
- Alternative domain registration providers like Porkbun and Cloudflare are mentioned, but concerns about low prices and potential future price increases are raised.
- The price increase is attributed to Verisign's permission to raise prices, sparking frustration and discussions about the value and accessibility of websites.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="uBlock Origin Lite now available on Firefox" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=uBlock%20Origin%20Lite%20now%20available%20on%20Firefox&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20August%2022%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
