---
slug: '/2023/08/26'
---

# 2023-08-26

## [OpenTF announces fork of Terraform](https://opentf.org/announcement)

- OpenTF is a fork of Terraform created by the OpenTF initiative.
- The initiative aims to keep Terraform open-source and has gained significant support from the community.
- OpenTF is being developed under a well-known license, will be community-driven, impartial, layered, and modular, and will be backwards-compatible.
- OpenTF plans to become part of the Linux Foundation and the Cloud Native Computing Foundation to ensure it remains open-source and vendor-neutral.
- The project is nearing completion, with a repository-wide rename, selection of steering committee members, and adjustments to community documents already completed.
- A working release of OpenTF is expected in the near future.
- OpenTF has already received support from multiple companies and is expected to grow.
- OpenTF will be compatible with existing Terraform providers and modules.
- Its licensing model will be governed by the foundation and community.
- Contributions to OpenTF can be made through resource pledges, spreading the word, and eventually code contributions.
- The project aims to establish a public roadmap and RFC process for community input.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37262440)

- OpenTF, a community-driven initiative, has forked the Terraform project from HashiCorp due to a change in the project's license.
- OpenTF aims to focus on positive aspects and gain support from companies while discussing the motivations behind HashiCorp's decision and the implications for the open-source community.
- The CNCF may need to make an exception to their licensing policy for OpenTF, and there is a discussion on the role of different open-source foundations.

## [Factorio: Space Age](https://factorio.com/blog/post/fff-373)

- The game "Factorio" is getting a new expansion called "Factorio: Space Age," which continues the player's journey after reaching space.
- The expansion will introduce new worlds, interplanetary space platforms, and logistics, providing unique challenges and resources.
- The release date for the expansion is planned for approximately a year from now and will include improvements to the overall game, such as better train control and blueprint building.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37260637)

- The discussion revolves around the popular game Factorio, covering various aspects such as mods, gameplay mechanics, train signaling, performance optimizations, and the upcoming expansion.
- Players share their experiences, opinions, and suggestions for improving the game, highlighting its addictive nature and concerns about time commitment.
- While Factorio is praised for its gameplay and frequent updates, there are also suggestions for enhancing depth and sustainability.

## [Beating GPT-4 on HumanEval with a fine-tuned CodeLlama-34B](https://www.phind.com/blog/code-llama-beats-gpt4)

- The Phind Team has trained CodeLlama models on a dataset and achieved impressive performance results on HumanEval.
- They have released the models on Huggingface for verification and to support the open-source community.
- The models' pass@1 scores were mentioned, along with a comparison to the performance of GPT-4.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37267597)

- The post explores the performance and limitations of GPT-4, a language model, and discusses the practical applications and potential improvements of the CodeLlama-34B model.
- There is a debate surrounding data contamination and the ethical considerations of sharing code.
- The benefits of open releases of language models and the implications for the industry are examined, along with the capabilities and potential uses of the CodeLlama-34B model and the impact of AI on the coding industry.

## [Web scraping for me, but not for thee](https://blog.ericgoldman.org/archives/2023/08/web-scraping-for-me-but-not-for-thee-guest-blog-post.htm)

- Companies like Meta and Microsoft prohibit web scraping on their own properties while freely scraping data from other companies' properties, creating a hypocritical stance.
- Web scraping involves acquiring data from the internet, but the legal question of who can access and use that data is complex.
- Social media companies aggressively pursue web scraping litigation to protect user-generated content, using legal theories like trespass to chattels or breach of contract, even without property rights in the data.
- The author criticizes the legal regime that allows companies to create their own intellectual property rights through online terms of use agreements.
- The lack of legal requirement for intellectual honesty or consistency in the breach-of-contract-as-property legal regime is highlighted.
- The author blames the courts for enabling this hypocrisy and calls for a solution to prevent private companies from inventing intellectual property rights through online contracts.
- The legal state of web scraping is seen as unstable and likely to face challenges in the future, specifically in generative AI cases.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37264676)

- The article discusses the legal implications and consequences of web scraping, using the HiQ vs LinkedIn case as an example.
- It explores topics such as violations of Terms of Service and End-User License Agreements, the broader implications for web scraping, and the need for fair rules and regulations.
- The article also touches on corporate behavior, legal clarity, insurance coverage and lawsuits, copyright protection, privacy concerns, and the balance between openness and control in the digital space.

## [Giving up the iPad-only travel dream](https://sixcolors.com/post/2023/08/why-i-gave-up-on-the-ipad-only-dream/)

- The author shares their experience of using an iPad as their primary travel device and the reasons behind their decision to switch back to a MacBook Air.
- They mention the lack of flexibility and functionality compared to a MacBook Air as a key factor in their decision.
- Specific limitations, such as the inability to use certain apps and accessories, are highlighted as frustrating aspects of using an iPad for professional work.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37266957)

- The article discusses the pros and cons of using iPads and other devices for activities like travel, note-taking, and media consumption.
- Users have different opinions on the convenience and portability of iPads compared to laptops and other tablets.
- The discussion covers topics such as software compatibility, device restrictions, and the desire for convertible devices.

## [The EU's war on behavioral advertising](https://thisisunpacked.substack.com/p/the-eu-war-on-behavioral-advertising)

- The EU has secured a victory in limiting behavioral advertising, as Meta (formerly Facebook) has agreed to end opt-in defaults for in-app behavioral advertising in the EU.
- Changes in privacy policies and legislation, such as Apple's App Tracking Transparency and Google's phasing out of third-party cookies, have influenced this decision.
- Privacy regulations have had a significant impact on the reach and effectiveness of behavioral advertising, leading to the rise of non-personalized product versions and a potential de-prioritization of EU markets by platforms. However, concerns remain about the potential consequences of the EU's strict regulatory approach on social media platforms' ability to monetize.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37263322)

- The discussion centers around the EU's approach to regulating behavioral advertising and explores criticisms of complexity and cost, as well as the lack of respect for the Do Not Track header.
- The implementation and impact of the GDPR is a key focus, with varying opinions on its effectiveness in protecting user privacy.
- The conversation delves into topics such as online advertising, privacy rules, consent for accessing user data, GDPR compliance, and the controversy between Facebook and the Canadian government over paying for news. It also addresses the influence of privacy movements, advertising strategies, algorithmic feeds, personalized digital ads, and the value and impact of advertising on society and the economy.

## [Leaked Wipeout source code leads to near-total rewrite and remaster](https://arstechnica.com/gaming/2023/08/developer-rewrites-original-wipeout-from-abysmal-leaked-windows-source/)

- The source code for the original Wipeout game has been leaked, leading to an independent developer rewriting and remastering the game.
- Developer Dominic Szablewski improved performance and gameplay by rewriting the rendering, physics, sound, and other elements of the game.
- Szablewski has made the code available on GitHub, allowing for it to be compiled for multiple platforms. He hopes that Sony, the owner of the Wipeout franchise, will either allow the remaster to continue or officially release a remastered version.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37262258)

- The leaked source code of Wipeout has prompted a complete rewrite and remaster of the game, resulting in an impressive frame rate of 6,000 frames per second.
- Discussions center around game rendering and frame rates, highlighting the challenges of working with gaming code and distinguishing between "bad" and "good" code.
- The importance of code cleanup and refactoring, as well as the value of soft skills and hands-on experience, are emphasized. Criticism is directed at the npm ecosystem in JavaScript/Node programming.
- The leak of the source code and conversations about Wipeout gameplay are also touched upon.

## [HelloSystem: A graphical OS built on FreeBSD](https://hellosystem.github.io/docs/)

- helloSystem is a user-friendly desktop system based on FreeBSD, with a focus on simplicity and usability for creators.
- It is designed to be welcoming to Mac users who are looking to switch to a different operating system.
- For more details and information about helloSystem, visit their GitHub page.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37262857)

- HelloSystem is a graphical operating system built on FreeBSD, designed to be compatible with macOS and FreeBSD applications.
- The discussion explores different viewpoints on stability, design, user experience, and the benefits of different operating systems.
- It mentions the similarities between HelloSystem and RISC OS, as well as the potential trademark concerns related to the name of the operating system.

## [The College Board website shares GPAs, SAT scores with TikTok and Facebook](https://gizmodo.com/sat-college-board-tells-facebook-tiktok-your-scores-gpa-1850768077)

- The College Board, which administers the SAT and Advanced Placement exams, has been found sharing student data with big tech companies like Facebook and TikTok.
- This data sharing is facilitated through "pixels," invisible tracking technology used for targeted advertising.
- Despite claims by the College Board that personally identifiable information is not shared, tests conducted by Gizmodo showed otherwise, raising privacy concerns.
- The mandatory nature of the College Board's services in the American education system adds to these privacy concerns.
- The College Board has a history of privacy issues, including selling student data in the past.
- It is unclear if the organization is still committed to student privacy as it is no longer a signatory of the Student Privacy Pledge.
- The College Board defends its data usage, claiming it helps students access and succeed in college.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37260553)

- The College Board is sharing GPAs and SAT scores with TikTok and Facebook using tracking pixels, raising privacy concerns.
- Critics argue that even sharing search history is a violation of privacy, despite the College Board's claims.
- The situation also raises concerns about government access to personal data without court approval and highlights the importance of privacy laws for both the government and private sector.

## [Email Authentication: A Developer's Guide](https://resend.com/blog/email-authentication-a-developers-guide)

- Email authentication is crucial for successful email delivery and to prevent emails from ending up in spam folders.
- SPF, DKIM, DMARC, and BIMI are key authentication protocols that establish the legitimacy of email senders and enhance domain reputation.
- Resend offers automatic handling of SPF and DKIM authentication for improved email deliverability.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37263708)

- The article emphasizes the significance of email authentication and the use of SPF, DKIM, and DMARC to verify legitimate email sending.
- Some readers criticize the article for lacking originality and using startup analogies.
- BIMI is mentioned as a way for brands to display their logo and credibility in emails, but concerns are raised regarding its cost, effectiveness, and lack of support from Microsoft Outlook. Some experts consider BIMI a waste of time and money.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="OpenTF announces fork of Terraform" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=OpenTF%20announces%20fork%20of%20Terraform&subheading=Saturday%2C%20August%2026%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
