---
slug: '/2023/08/27'
---

# 2023-08-27

## [E-ink is so Retropunk](https://rmkit.dev/eink-is-so-retropunk/)

- The article explores the author's fascination with e-ink devices and compares them to the simplicity and magic of computers from the 80s and 90s.
- The benefits of e-ink devices are highlighted, including their low power consumption, simple architecture, and lack of unnecessary software and features.
- The unique software ecosystem surrounding e-ink devices is discussed, and readers are encouraged to participate in hacking and developing for these devices. Some limitations, such as the proprietary display driver of the reMarkable 2 and the lack of strong package management on the Kobo, are mentioned.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37272652)

- The discussion explores customization options, limitations, and high costs associated with e-ink devices.
- Users share their experiences, frustrations, and desires in relation to e-ink technology.
- There is a debate about the impact of patents on competition and the definition of certain terms.

## [Block YouTube ads on AppleTV by decrypting and stripping ads from Profobuf](https://ericdraken.com/pfsense-decrypt-ad-traffic/)

- The author explores various methods and tools to block YouTube ads on Apple TV, including decrypting and manipulating Protocol Buffer data.
- They discuss the importance of privacy and the negative effects of ads and tracking.
- The author sets up a pfSense router and multiple access points, discusses network configurations, troubleshoots issues, and experiments with using a VPN to change their YouTube location and avoid ads.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37279109)

- The discussion addresses methods to block YouTube ads on AppleTV and the impact of ad-blockers on creators and Google's ad revenue.
- It explores alternatives to support creators on YouTube, such as platforms like Patreon.
- Privacy and security concerns, including issues with downmixing audio in movies, are discussed, along with frustrations with YouTube's features and excessive ads.

## [Slack’s migration to a cellular architecture](https://slack.engineering/slacks-migration-to-a-cellular-architecture/)

- Slack has transitioned from a monolithic architecture to a cell-based architecture to enhance redundancy and minimize the impact of site failures.
- The migration was prompted by an incident where network disruption in one availability zone resulted in errors for Slack users.
- Slack's new cellular architecture enables the isolation of failures within a single availability zone and redirects user requests to ensure continuous service availability.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37274871)

- Slack has implemented a cellular architecture with a siloing strategy, allowing for better performance and scalability.
- The company also utilizes multiple availability zones to ensure high availability of their service.
- A major challenge in Slack's microservices architecture is the use of different programming languages, which can lead to compatibility issues.
- Users have expressed dissatisfaction with Slack's performance, especially when compared to Microsoft Teams.
- Suggestions have been made to consider using alternatives like IRC, which may offer better performance and reliability.

## [If you're interested in eye-tracking, I'm interested in funding you](https://twitter.com/paulg/status/1695596853864321055)

- Paul Graham, a renowned investor and co-founder of Y Combinator, is actively seeking to fund a startup that focuses on enhancing eye-tracking technology for people with ALS.
- The startup's primary goal would be to develop an improved eye-controlled keyboard, which can greatly assist individuals affected by ALS in communication and everyday tasks.
- Graham's interest in this field showcases the potential for technological advancements to significantly improve the lives of those with ALS, offering a glimpse into the exciting possibilities of assistive technology innovation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37278345)

- The post on Hacker News explores the potential applications of eye-tracking technology and its impact on usability and accessibility for individuals with limited physical mobility, like those with ALS.
- The limitations and challenges of eye-tracking are discussed, along with alternative technologies and solutions.
- The post mentions various companies, products, and advancements in the field, highlighting the positive potential for improving the quality of life for individuals with disabilities. Additionally, there is a brief discussion on the environmental impact of lithium extraction and ethical implications of technology development.

## [90% of “eco-friendly” paper straws contain traces of toxic forever chemicals](https://scienceswitch.com/2023/08/27/90-of-eco-friendly-paper-straws-contain-traces-of-toxic-forever-chemicals/)

- A study from the University of Antwerp reveals that 90% of eco-friendly paper straws contain harmful "forever chemicals" called PFAS.
- PFAS have been linked to various health issues such as high cholesterol, reduced immune response, thyroid disease, and increased cancer risk.
- The study found PFAS in 69% of the 39 tested straw brands, with paper straws having the highest presence of these chemicals. The water-resistant coating on paper straws likely contributes to the use of PFAS.
- This challenges the assumption that paper straws are automatically healthier and more sustainable than plastic alternatives, calling for further research to determine if PFAS leach out of paper straws during typical use.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37275856)

- The debate focuses on the environmental impact of straws and alternatives like stainless steel or reusable plastic straws.
- Concerns are raised about the presence of harmful chemicals in eco-friendly paper straws and the challenges of recycling them due to their water-resistant coating.
- The discussion also highlights the broader issues of plastic pollution, the energy consumption of different straw types, and the need for comprehensive solutions to address this problem.

## [Fish – A friendly interactive shell](https://github.com/fish-shell/fish-shell)

- Fish shell is a command line shell available on GitHub for macOS, Linux, and various platforms.
- Features of fish shell include syntax highlighting, autosuggest-as-you-type, and tab completions.
- Installation instructions are provided for macOS, Linux, and Windows, including building from source and dependencies.
- The summary also mentions how to contribute to the project and where to find support and resources.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37272611)

- The Fish shell is praised for its user-friendly interface, simplicity for scripting, and built-in features.
- Users express frustration with other shells like zsh and discuss compatibility and configuration issues.
- While there are some limitations, overall, users have a positive view of the capabilities of the Fish shell.

## [Thoughts about what worked in math circles](https://buttondown.email/j2kun/archive/thoughts-about-what-worked-in-math-circles/)

- Leading a math circle for 7-8 year olds involved experimenting with different topics to capture their attention.
- Propositional logic puzzles and game theory games were successful, while geometry and fold-and-cut activities were not engaging for the children.
- Storytelling played a crucial role in engaging young learners, leading them to appreciate math for its own sake, but the author acknowledges the need for more engaging stories with a new group of children.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37276502)

- Math circles are valuable and rare opportunities for young students, providing benefits in preparing them for math careers.
- Euclid's Elements approach and math games are mentioned as resources and activities to engage students.
- The article highlights the potential benefits and challenges of introducing math concepts, including for children on the Autism Spectrum, and emphasizes the importance of innovative and interactive teaching methods for math education.

## [A venture-backed startup has quietly bought more than 80 mom-and-pop shops](https://techcrunch.com/2023/08/24/this-venture-backed-startup-has-quietly-bought-more-than-80-mom-and-pop-shops/)

- Teamshares, a New York-based startup, specializes in acquiring small businesses that lack succession plans and offering employee ownership.
- The company has successfully acquired 84 businesses and generates revenue by selling fintech products.
- Teamshares has raised an impressive $245 million in venture capital and intends to replace existing vendors while expanding its product offerings.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37272298)

- Start-up TeamShares has acquired more than 80 small businesses and transformed them into worker-owned cooperatives.
- The aim of this unique business model is to provide financial security for employees and a path to ownership.
- However, there are concerns about the long-term viability of these businesses and doubts about TeamShares' focus on selling fintech products rather than improving business profitability.

## [n8n.io - A powerful workflow automation tool](https://n8n.io)

- n8n is a workflow automation tool that is designed to make it easier for technical people to create complex automations efficiently.
- It offers a user-friendly interface and the option to customize the automation using JavaScript.
- With over 350 native integrations and the ability to create custom scenarios, n8n can be used in various use cases such as customer integrations, CRM customization, and SaaS backend prototyping.
- It prioritizes scalability and customizable error handling and can be self-hosted for free or used in the cloud with affordable pricing options.
- The n8n community provides support and resources for its users, and the platform is highly praised for its capabilities and flexibility.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37274052)

- n8n.io is a popular workflow automation tool that is praised for its ability to build complex backends without extensive programming knowledge.
- Users mention sporadic errors and limited user management and integrations as drawbacks of n8n.io.
- Other tools like Huginn, Windmill, and Inngest are discussed, with their benefits and drawbacks highlighted.
- n8n.io is highlighted as a cheaper open-source alternative to Zapier, and there is a debate about whether open-source software should be freely available or require payment.
- It is emphasized that understanding licensing and business models of software tools is important.
- Integration capabilities of n8n.io are discussed, with users suggesting improvements for better integration with other platforms.
- The thread includes discussions on the pronunciation of "n8n," comparisons to other tools, and the functionality and reliability of these tools for workflow automation.

## [Linux on a Commodore 64](https://github.com/onnokort/semu-c64)

- Semu-c64 is a project that allows running Linux on a Commodore C64 using a fork of the semu emulator.
- It requires a RAM Expansion Unit and runs very slowly, with booting Linux on a real C64 estimated to take a week.
- The code can be built using make and mos-c64-clang, and the emulator can be run on VICE EMU by creating a .d64 file and loading the semu executable.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37277907)

- A developer has successfully run Linux on a Commodore 64 using a RISC-V emulator and an LLVM port.
- There are debates regarding the efficiency of the compiler and the limitations of the Commodore 64's processor.
- Some are interested in running the project on real hardware, but it requires a rare and hard-to-find RAM Expansion Unit.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="E-ink is so Retropunk" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=E-ink%20is%20so%20Retropunk&subheading=Sunday%2C%20August%2027%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
