---
slug: '/2023/08/29'
---

# 2023-08-29

## [ChatGPT Enterprise](https://openai.com/blog/introducing-chatgpt-enterprise)

- OpenAI has launched ChatGPT Enterprise, a new platform providing enhanced security, privacy, faster processing, longer context windows, and data analysis capabilities.
- The platform, which is favorably adopted by over 80% of Fortune 500 companies, offers full access to GPT-4 (an advanced AI model) and gives organizations the ability to deploy custom AI assistants without compromising data privacy.
- OpenAI values data privacy, signaling that ChatGPT Enterprise is SOC 2 compliant and provides encrypted conversations, planning to introduce additional features in the future.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37297304)

- Ongoing dialogue revolves around the use of OpenAI's ChatGPT in business settings, with significant concerns about data privacy, potential intellectual property infringement, and the tool's effectiveness.
- OpenAI has launched an enterprise version of ChatGPT to address some issues, but skepticism lingers, and challenges such as the legal consequences of AI-generated content and possible commercial applications are also being discussed.
- There is increasing speculation about the relationship between OpenAI and Microsoft, both of which provide AI tools for businesses, and the question of copyrightability of machine learning-generated output also contributes to the ambiguity surrounding AI models like ChatGPT.

## [When your classmates threaten you with felony charges](https://miles.land/posts/classmates-legal-threat-fizz-defcon/)

- The author discovered a security flaw in a social media app, Fizz, and responsibly disclosed it, only to face a legal threat.
- They were able to satisfactorily resolve the situation by seeking legal representation.
- The author offers three essential lessons for comparable instances: thoroughly documenting research, remaining composed under threats, and procuring legal help when required.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37297823)

- The passage delves into controversies and debates concerning the legitimacy and ethics of unsanctioned security research, penetration testing, employment contracts, and legal threats.
- Considerable focus is put on the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA), the idea of intent, beneficial security research, the contribution of the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), and the necessity for unambiguous legal structures and regulation in this area.
- Highlighted are the mixed views on these issues and the indistinct boundary between ethical conduct and unauthorized practices.

## [What do I think about Community Notes?](https://vitalik.ca/general/2023/08/16/communitynotes.html)

- Twitter's Community Notes feature is a fact-checking tool that attaches context notes to tweets to combat misinformation, operating via an open-source algorithm which is discussed in detail in this article.
- The article delves into the mechanics of this algorithm, which prioritizes notes with positive ratings from diverse user perspectives, revolving around the concept of "polarity" values in determining note usefulness.
- The piece also addresses concerns about centralized manipulation, emphasizes the educational value of Community Notes, and advocates for its potential growth and development, despite acknowledging its lack of full decentralization.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37292041)

- The primary focus of the comments is Twitter's Community Notes system, online voting mechanisms, political polarization, expertise and trust, censorship on social media platforms, and harmful online content.
- These discussions reflect greatly contrasting opinions and present numerous concerns, underlining the multifaceted and challenging nature of these topics.
- By discussing these aspects, the commentators are trying to grasp and solve contemporary online issues.

## [Amazon acquires Fig](https://fig.io/blog/post/fig-joins-aws)

- Fig, a company creating tools for developers, has been acquired by Amazon Web Services (AWS), a subsidiary of Amazon offering cloud computing services.
- Current users of Fig will continue to receive support, and the paid team features will be available for free.
- As an immediate effect of this acquisition, new user registrations for Fig's products are paused as the company aims to optimize its products for current clientele and carry out its integration with AWS.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37296401)

- Amazon has acquired Fig, a tool that offers autocomplete for the command line interface, triggering debates about the product's future.
- Users are questioning Fig's subscription model and data privacy since the acquisition, and drawing attention to the need for open source alternatives.
- The community is split over the acquisition, with some foreseeing potential improvements, while others express skepticism and concern about Fig's future.

## [OpenTelemetry in 2023](https://bit.kevinslin.com/p/opentelemetry-in-2023)

- OpenTelemetry (OTEL) was established in 2019 as a merger of two open-source tracing projects, aiming to provide top-notch telemetry for organizations.
- OTEL, second most active in Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF), has wide acceptance among observability providers and comprises specifications and implementations for metrics, logs, traces, and agent management.
- Expansive and widely used, it offers an SDK for instrumenting code in popular languages and a collector to receive and export telemetry, with future expansion and improvement plans.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37295097)

- The discussion concerns OpenTelemetry, a software tool to enhance applications' observability, highlighting its pros such as cost-effectiveness and large data handling, and cons like complexity and vague definition.
- Key subjects discussed include trace viewing, root spans, sampling, error tracing, system overload, SQL usage, and self-hosted solutions, illustrating varied perspectives on the tool's usability and efficiency.
- Participants also explore alternatives to OpenTelemetry, discussing the benefits and drawbacks of event tracing, logs, and different tools and technologies.

## [New images and video confirm Austin-made Tesla model Y has cracked front casting](https://www.autoevolution.com/news/new-images-and-video-confirm-austin-made-tesla-model-y-has-cracked-front-casting-220165.html)

- An owner of an Austin-manufactured Tesla Model Y discovered a cracked front casting issue two months after delivery, drawing attention to quality control issues.
- The same owner also found a missing brake fluid reservoir cap on their vehicle, which can be a significant safety concern.
- The owner, who has not received a proper response from Tesla regarding the issues, urges other Model Y owners to inspect their vehicles and requests Tesla to provide solution documentation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37292321)

- There are concerns about the reliability of Tesla Model Y vehicles manufactured in Austin, with images and videos revealing cracked front castings.
- The discussion includes the topics of Tesla's customer service, the company's response to defects, and perceived differences in build quality between American and European car manufacturers.
- The wider implications surrounding these issues speculate deterrents to Tesla's brand reputation, with concerns regarding their quality control, manufacturing procedures, and higher defect rate compared to other luxury auto brands.

## [An unexpected find that freed 20GB of unused index space (2021)](https://hakibenita.com/postgresql-unused-index-size)

- The article focuses on PostgreSQL database optimization techniques such as index deduplication, table rebuilding, using partial indexes, and preventing unnecessary index creation on foreign keys.
- The author shares their personal experience, wherein these methods helped free up around 70GB of excess space.
- Special focus is given to partial indexes, not only for their capability to enhance performance but also for their role in saving storage space; the implementation process using Django ORM is also covered.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37294793)

- The article explores the issue of unused index space in PostgreSQL, debating the pros and cons of purchasing additional storage or optimizing current index size.
- Industry professionals share insights on the potential benefits of indexing and optimization, including cost savings and enhanced performance, while addressing the trade-off between hardware investment and efficiency.
- Topics highlighted include factors impacting indexing efficiency, like locking overhead and disk I/O wait times, and various tools and methods for identifying and reducing unnecessary indexes.

## [My mother is slowly losing her eyesight, how to prepare?](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37293002)

- A user seeks user-friendly and non-technical methods to aid their elder mother, who suffers a degenerative eye condition yet remains an ardent reader, in reading more comfortably.
- The user is interested in ways to raise the font size on her e-reader, making it easier for her to read.
- The user also looks for ways to facilitate her continued enjoyment of online literature quizzes despite her visual impairment.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37293002)

- The discussion focuses on various aids and solutions for visually impaired individuals, such as audio solutions, voice-controlled devices, tactile feedback, and assistive technologies like NFC/RFID stickers and magnifying lenses.
- The importance of learning Braille, utilizing audiobooks, exploring rehabilitation centers, seeking support from organizations like The American Council for the Blind, and maintaining a positive attitude and patience is highlighted.
- The post also touches on specific eye conditions and treatments, the challenges of transitioning to new devices, the complexity of accessibility settings, and recommends in-person training, alternative devices, diet, and custom exercises.

## [Serial adapter/reboot controller for Apple M1/M2](https://www.tindie.com/products/aaafnraa/serial-adapter-reboot-controller-for-apple-m1m2/)

- The Central Scrutinizer is a serial adapter and reboot controller specifically designed for Apple M1/M2 machines, offering developers a low-level debugging port.
- It also includes a USB2.0 pass-through for booting using the m1n1 bootloader and requires a soldered-on Raspberry-Pi Pico to operate.
- The hardware and software for this device are open-source, and it can be assembled with a Pico upon request with various shipping options.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37298506)

- The article elaborates on a novel serial adapter/reboot controller specifically designed for Apple M1/M2 devices.
- The adapter, costing $20, allows access to the typically phone-exclusive serial port on the USB-C connector, making it a potent tool for low-level bootloader work and further development of the Apple M-chip ecosystem.
- Potential applications of the adapter include the powering on of shutdown devices, despite mentioned challenges relating to shipping in specific countries.

## [3M is paying $5.5B to resolve 300k lawsuits over defective combat earplugs](https://qz.com/3m-is-paying-5-5-billion-to-resolve-300-000-lawsuits-o-1850780085)

- 3M, a renowned equipment manufacturer, will pay over $5.5 billion to resolve around 300,000 lawsuits charging it sold defective combat earplugs to the US military.
- The lawsuits alleged 3M knew its earplugs were too short to provide adequate protection but did not inform the government or the users about it.
- Without the settlement, 3M's potential liability could have exceeded $9.5 billion. This follows a $10.3 billion payment made by 3M in June to settle claims over "forever chemicals."

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37297751)

- 3M has agreed to a $5.5 billion settlement in response to 300,000 lawsuits related to defective combat earplugs, known as CAEv2, alleged to provide insufficient protection against harmful noise.
- The company's claim of government-contractor defense was dismissed because of the absence of a written contract, however, details about the defect and accountability remain vague.
- The post has sparked discussions about the efficacy of ear protection in various situations and debates about the lawsuits against 3M, especially focusing on the settlement amount and its effect on the company's financial health.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="ChatGPT Enterprise" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=ChatGPT%20Enterprise&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20August%2029%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
