---
slug: '/2023/08/31'
---

# 2023-08-31

## [I automated half of my typing](https://github.com/eschluntz/compress)

- The user has been utilizing a tool that analyzes their Slack messages and generates keyboard shortcuts for commonly used phrases over the past year.
- The tool works by parsing the Slack messages to recognize frequently repeated phrases.
- This tool provides users with efficiency and convenience by turning routine phrases into easily accessible keyboard shortcuts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37326870)

- The primary focus of the text is on enhancing typing efficiency and productivity through automation tools, shortcuts, and abbreviations.
- There's an ongoing debate on the importance of typing speed in coding productivity, and striking a balance between efficiency and relaxation in both work and life.
- Various methods such as keyboard shortcuts, alternate keyboard setups, text expansion tools, and dictation systems are explored, with a discussion on their potential benefits and drawbacks.

## [My Caste](https://www.cs.toronto.edu/~meel/opinions/caste.html)

- The post's author identifies as a member of the Other Backward Classes (OBC), a socio-economically disadvantaged group in India.
- They highlight the issue of underrepresentation in academia, specifically pointing out the scarcity of OBC faculty within top-tier Indian institutions.
- The overall objective of the post is to raise awareness and offer encouragement for OBC individuals seeking to advance in higher education or secure faculty positions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37323760)

- The series discusses caste system and caste discrimination in India, focusing on its influence on communities and its prevalence across societal sectors like education and employment.
- The conversation expands upon complex matters like affirmative action, cultural influences, and draws comparisons with racism to provide an in-depth perspective.
- It highlights possible prejudiced practices in tech companies and the use of caste data on dating and matrimonial platforms, indicating the wide-reaching implications of caste discrimination.

## [A DIY ‘bionic pancreas’ is changing diabetes care](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-023-02648-9)

- A community of individuals managing type 1 diabetes have developed DIY open-source software to automate blood glucose level management, emphasizing the importance of personalization over commercial systems.
- Advocates are pushing for FDA clearance for an open-source algorithm to increase the accessibility to these DIY devices, but cooperation between device manufacturers is necessary for interoperability.
- The reported benefits of these open-source AI algorithms in managing diabetes highlight the value of user choice and the progress within the open-source community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37321028)

- The discussion entails several aspects of diabetes management such as the utilization of Do-It-Yourself (DIY) technology, closed-loop systems, challenges involving insulin pump use, necessity for improved monitoring devices, impact of dietary habits, and the influence of the DIY community in spearheading advancements.
- There is contemplation about potential advantages and drawbacks of different management strategies, accentuating the significance of continuous research and support for people with diabetes.
- The overarching focus is on discovering enhanced solutions to control blood sugar levels and lessen the risks tied with diabetes.

## [Microsoft is using malware-like pop-ups in Win11 to get people to ditch Chrome](https://www.theverge.com/2023/8/30/23851902/microsoft-bing-popups-windows-11-malware)

- Microsoft is prompting Windows 11 users with pop-up messages suggesting to switch their default search engine from Google to Bing, even when they're utilizing Chrome.
- These tactics are causing user frustration, as they consider such pop-ups intrusive and believe they should not be subjected to advertisements within an operating system they have bought.
- Microsoft has recognized the backlash and has temporarily halted these notifications while they attempt to resolve the issue.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37321002)

- Discussions center on user frustrations with Windows, specifically Windows 11, prompting some to consider alternatives like Mac or Linux due to issues with pop-ups, user accounts, and program visibility.
- Among system choices, Linux is lauded for ease of use and functionality but has noted drawbacks for running specific games. Other discussed areas include hardware preferences, software compatibility, and limitations of Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL).
- There's a prevalent sense of dissatisfaction with interruptions and ads in tech products, with debates about platform restrains, the future of Windows, Microsoft's behaviour, and potential legal or regulatory actions. Some frustrations with iPhone apps for Gmail and Google Maps also indicate potential discontent with Google products.

## [Windows 11 system components use the default browser to open links in Europe](https://blogs.windows.com/windows-insider/2023/08/25/announcing-windows-11-insider-preview-build-23531-dev-channel/)

- Microsoft has rolled out Insider Preview Build 23531 for Windows 11 to the Dev Channel, packed with updates like fixes for safe mode, File Explorer, HDR backgrounds, and Task Manager.
- Some known problems continue to persist with the Start menu and search functions on the taskbar. Developers are encouraged to download the latest Windows Insider SDK and NuGet packages to keep up to date.
- After a reboot, the Dev Channel is now receiving 23000 series builds, hence the desktop watermark, a regular feature for pre-release builds.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37320786)

- The discussion centers on critiques of Microsoft's Windows 11 in the European Economic Area (EEA) for its bias towards the Edge browser, overlooking user preference.
- Participants also debate about the behavior of other tech companies such as Apple, hinting at a wider need for strict regulations to prevent monopolistic practices which limit user choice and privacy.
- Other topics include frustrations with downloading Chrome on Edge, the perceived lack of respect from Microsoft to its users, and positive experiences with alternative options like Linux Mint.

## [Hundreds of thousands trafficked to work as online scammers in SE Asia, says UN](https://www.ohchr.org/en/press-releases/2023/08/hundreds-thousands-trafficked-work-online-scammers-se-asia-says-un-report)

- A report from the UN Human Rights Office reveals that organized criminal gangs are forcing hundreds of thousands of Southeast Asians into online criminal activities like romance-investment scams, crypto fraud, and illicit gambling.
- These criminal organizations subject their victims to human rights abuses such as threats, torture, sexual violence, forced labor, and arbitrary detention. The scale of this online scam trafficking is challenging to estimate due to its secretive nature.
- The report calls on affected nations to reinforce human rights, enhance governance, enforce the rule of law, and tackle corruption as part of their response to these scams, which have escalated during the COVID-19 pandemic.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37320975)

- The online conversation involves reports of human trafficking in Southeast Asia, where victims are forced into online scam activities, potentially involving local law enforcement and political networks.
- The debate extends to existing criminal justice practices, with a focus on systemic improvements to prevent crime, rehabilitate offenders, and address prisoner treatment in the US.
- AI's role in scams gets scrutinized, while there's also discussion on the responsibility of social media platforms like Tinder and LinkedIn to mitigate these scamming activities.

## [FCC refuses to scrap rule requiring ISPs to list every monthly fee](https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2023/08/fcc-says-too-bad-to-isps-complaining-that-listing-every-fee-is-too-hard/)

- The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has denied appeals from Comcast and other ISPs to remove a rule obliging them to disclose all monthly fees.
- ISPs argued that this requirement posed administrative challenges and unwarranted complexity, but the FCC stressed the need for transparency for consumers when choosing their internet service.
- By legislation, the FCC will enforce these rules, necessitating ISPs to include all government-imposed fees on the broadband label.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37326806)

- The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has upheld a rule mandating Internet Service Providers (ISPs) to disclose all monthly fees to customers in a bid to enhance transparency and facilitate comparison among providers.
- Supporters argue this rule will expose hidden charges, stimulate competition among ISPs, and hold them accountable. The discussion also brings up the question of whether pass-through fees imposed by local governments should be considered taxes and if ISPs should pass these on to customers.
- Additionally, the FCC ruled that ISPs must reveal all fees and charges upfront in their ads to offer further transparency, mirroring public sentiment for honesty in pricing and against hidden fees.

## [Long Live the 'GPU Poor' – Open-Source AI Grants](https://a16z.com/2023/08/30/supporting-the-open-source-ai-community/)

- Open source projects in AI are surging, but developers often lack resources to sustain their work long-term.
- AH Capital Management is initiating the a16z Open Source AI Grant program to offer financial support to these developers, mitigating the pressure to generate profits.
- The initial group of grant beneficiaries and funded projects have been disclosed.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37324683)

- Venture capital firm, a16z, has initiated a $100 million fund to grant aid to open-source AI projects, with the intent to promote realistic AI applications and eliminate language model censorship.
- The funding, shrouded in skepticism, has triggered a debate regarding the real motives behind the initiative; a16z clarifies that the grants require no equity and aim to support open-source developers, encouraging a flourishing ecosystem.
- The discourse also centers on financial constraints encumbering developers due to investment in GPUs (Graphics Processing Units) for AI development, a concern that some believe the fund should address due to its hypothetical vagueness.

## [Absurd Success](https://www.marginalia.nu/log/87_absurd_success/)

- The author details their recent developments in enhancing a search engine, such as reducing RAM requirements, removing the need for downtime during upgrades, and increasing document indexing capacity.
- A plan is unveiled to improve the URL database and reverse index construction, efforts that have already resulted in reduced RAM usage, simplified backups, and expedited index construction.
- The author's narrative expresses their satisfaction with the performed modifications and asks for donations for continuous improvement.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37331778)

- The conversation on Hacker News focuses on a blog post about Marginalia, a high-efficiency search engine project, covering areas such as optimization advantages, restrictions fostering creativity, and consideration for diverse devices and user experiences.
- Participants highlight the potential of small companies providing superior customer experiences, the importance of constraints in triggering innovation, and the purpose of personal projects across diverse fields.
- A hotly debated topic during this discussion also includes the efficiency of large teams against small teams in producing quality work.

## [Hacking the LG Monitor's EDID](https://gist.github.com/kj800x/be3001c07c49fdb36970633b0bc6defb)

- The article addresses a problem with an LG ULTRAGEAR monitor not functioning correctly on the Linux operating system.
- The issue is investigated by exploring the Extended Display Identification Data (EDID) file and modifying it using a hex editor.
- The problem seems to be linked to graphics card drivers on Linux rather than the monitor itself, suggesting a potential avenue for solving similar issues.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37323604)

- The article delves into the challenges and issues related to monitor compatibility and manipulation of Extended Display Identification Data (EDID) on operating systems like Linux, macOS, and Windows.
- It highlights user experiences regarding EDID overrides, low latency Dolby Vision, brightness adjustments, pixel clock errors, and non-posting machines, and points out the complexity and limitations of handling EDID data.
- The discussion also brings to light hardware compatibility issues on Linux and nuances of troubleshooting on the platform. It specifically underlines problems with LG monitors' EDIDs and coexistence of different standards on a single device.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="I automated half of my typing" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=I%20automated%20half%20of%20my%20typing&subheading=Thursday%2C%20August%2031%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
