---
slug: '/2023/08/15'
---

# 2023-08-15

## [Show HN: LLMs can generate valid JSON 100% of the time](https://github.com/normal-computing/outlines)

- Outlines is a Python library that specializes in text generation using large language models.
- The creators have developed a technique to generate text that conforms to a regular expression by converting it into a generative model.
- The library can also generate text that adheres to a JSON schema or can be parsed into a Pydantic model, ensuring the output is valid.
- The creators are actively seeking feedback and suggestions for further improvements.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37125118)

- Participants discussed the use of large language models (LLMs) in generating valid JSON text.
- The conversation touched on challenges in generating code and handling edge cases, as well as the limitations and benefits of different LLM models.
- Various tools and approaches were mentioned, with concerns raised about stability, sensibility, and efficiency.

## [Show HN: Little Rat – Chrome extension monitors network calls of all extensions](https://github.com/dnakov/little-rat)

- A person developed a Chrome extension to monitor network calls made by other Chrome extensions.
- The extension was shared on GitHub, with the possibility of being available on the Chrome store after review.
- Links to the GitHub repository and the developer's Twitter account were provided.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37119942)

- The Little Rat Chrome extension is designed to monitor network calls made by other Chrome extensions.
- Users have expressed concerns about the security and potential risks associated with the extension.
- However, they also believe that it could be a valuable tool for identifying security vulnerabilities.
- The extension is currently being reviewed for inclusion in the Chrome Web Store.
- Users have suggested ways to verify the safety of the extension.

## [Discord.io breached, 760k user accounts for sale on darknet](https://stackdiary.com/the-data-of-760000-discord-io-users-was-put-up-for-sale-on-the-darknet/)

- The data of 760,000 users on Discord.io has been leaked on the darknet, including email addresses, hashed passwords, and other user-specific information.
- The breach was confirmed by Discord.io, but Discord (the official app) has stated that they are not associated with Discord.io and have revoked access tokens for any users who used Discord.io.
- The breach was carried out by a hacker named Akhirah, who claimed it was not for money but due to the presence of illegal and harmful content on Discord.io. Cybersecurity experts have verified the authenticity of the data, highlighting the risk of phishing and spamming attacks. Discord.io recommends users change their passwords and enable two-factor authentication, while also canceling existing premium subscriptions and attempting to establish communication with the culprits to determine if the data has been shared publicly.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37124187)

- A breach on Discord.io has led to the sale of 760,000 user accounts on the darknet.
- Users unknowingly connected their accounts to a third-party service, resulting in the breach.
- Discord users are concerned about the lack of action taken by the company and the potential risk to their trademark.

## [Backward Compatibility, Go 1.21, and Go 2](https://go.dev/blog/compat)

- The blog post emphasizes the importance of maintaining compatibility in the Go programming language and discusses the challenges involved.
- It highlights the use of API checking and testing to prevent compatibility issues, while acknowledging that testing is not foolproof.
- The update on Go 1.21 introduces a new approach using GODEBUG to improve backward compatibility and assures that Go 1 programs will not be broken by a Go 2 specification.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37122871)

- The discussions focus on programming languages like Go, Java, C#, and Python.
- Participants discuss topics such as backward compatibility, new features, code abstraction, version updates, and breaking changes.
- Opinions vary on these topics, with some emphasizing compatibility and stability, while others emphasize the need for innovation and language improvement. Users also share their experiences and frustrations with specific languages and version transitions.

## [OpenFarm – a free and open database and web application for gardening knowledge](https://openfarm.cc)

- OpenFarm is a new project and community that aims to help gardeners grow food through knowledge sharing.
- Members can choose a specific crop, access guides, and learn how to care for their plants during different stages of growth.
- The website offers features like a survey to determine a user's gardening type, community favorites, and opportunities for user contributions. Members can also access a FAQ section, a blog, a code of conduct, and stay updated with the email newsletter.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37125830)

- OpenFarm is a free and open database and web application for gardening knowledge.
- The project is not actively maintained but is still being used for crop information management by FarmBot.
- The project requires a dependency upgrade and potential maintainers, and there are suggestions for improvements, including using Jekyll or adopting the project under the Wikimedia foundation.
- Users have expressed interest and concerns about the project's usefulness, functionality, and licensing.

## [Following pushback, Zoom says it won't use customer data to train AI models](https://www.darkreading.com/analytics/following-pushback-zoom-says-it-won-t-use-customer-data-to-train-ai-models)

- Zoom has reversed its decision to use customer content to train its AI models after facing criticism on social media over privacy concerns.
- This highlights the ongoing debate surrounding the privacy and security implications of tech companies utilizing customer data for AI advancements.
- There will likely be growing pressure on companies to offer clear user opt-outs and protect personal information when using customer data for AI purposes.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37123572)

- Zoom has received backlash for using customer data for AI training, leading to doubts about its privacy commitment.
- Discussions have emerged about the monetization of old user data and the necessity of explicit laws or regulations.
- The encryption capabilities of various platforms, such as Zoom, Signal, and Whatsapp, are being analyzed, underscoring the significance of comprehending their encryption definitions.

## [Police raid of a Kansas newsroom raises alarms about violations of press freedom](https://www.npr.org/2023/08/14/1193676139/newspaper-marion-county-kansas-police-raid-first-amendment)

- A local newspaper office and a journalist's home in Marion, Kansas were raided by law enforcement officers, raising concerns about press freedom violations.
- Computers, cellphones, and reporting materials were confiscated during the raid, conducted under a search warrant.
- Local authorities claim the raid was related to investigating identity theft, but experts argue that it likely violates federal law protecting journalists from such actions. The raid also allegedly resulted in the death of the newspaper's co-owner.
- Experts are demanding an investigation into the authorities involved and highlighting the significance of safeguarding press freedom.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37120350)

- A police raid on a newsroom in Kansas has sparked national attention and concern about press freedom violations and potential corruption by local law enforcement.
- Commenters are worried about the exclusion of non-mainstream journalists and the influence of disinformation and propaganda.
- There is a call for accountability and prosecution for those responsible for violating freedom of the press, raising concerns about the unchecked power of local authorities and the suppression of information.

## Tell HN: t.co is adding a five-second delay to some domains

- Twitter's redirecting service, t.co, intentionally imposes a delay of around 5 seconds when users click on links to "NYTimes.com" or "threads.net."
- The delay occurs consistently and is deliberately implemented by Twitter.
- The reason behind this intentional delay is not mentioned in the text.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37130060)

- Twitter has implemented a five-second delay when redirecting users to specific websites like the New York Times, leading to speculation about censorship or manipulation.
- The banning of websites on Hacker News is discussed, raising questions about transparency and the effectiveness of content moderation.
- Concerns are voiced about biased treatment, potential political bias, and the impact on user trust.

## [Show HN: AI-town, run your own custom AI world SIM with JavaScript](https://github.com/a16z-infra/ai-town)

- AI-town is a starter kit that allows users to create and customize AI simulations.
- The kit includes a server-side game engine and is multiplayer and deployment ready.
- AI-town is written in Typescript and aims to simplify the process of building AI simulation environments.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37128293)

- AI-town is a starter kit that enables users to build AI simulations using JavaScript and customize their environments.
- The project seeks to democratize the creation of simulation environments and encourages the community to develop complex interactions.
- It combines different techniques to create cooperative agents that operate in abstract semantic spaces. However, there is skepticism about the potential value or interest of the AI characters.

## [Software Engineering at Google (2020)](https://abseil.io/resources/swe-book/html/toc.html)

- The book "Site Reliability Engineering: How Google Runs Production Systems" offers a comprehensive exploration of various topics in software engineering, team culture, and leadership.
- It shares insights and best practices from Google's perspective and experiences, providing valuable knowledge in areas such as measuring engineering productivity, code review, documentation, testing, and tools.
- The book also covers topics like dependency management, large-scale changes, continuous integration, continuous delivery, and compute as a service, making it a valuable resource for software engineers looking to enhance their skills and understanding in these areas.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37121180)

- The Hacker News discussion covers various topics related to software engineering at Google, including the effectiveness of their practices and the scalability and architecture of their software systems.
- It also discusses the performance review and promotion processes at Google, as well as the importance of emulating their practices and the development process with a focus on Piper and citc workspaces.
- The conversation touches on other areas such as code readability and maintainability, opinions on Google's engineering practices and products, and related topics like gcc and clang, C++ stdlib limitations, the abseil library, Google's search engine, Microsoft's backward compatibility, and a book on software engineering at Google.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Show HN: LLMs can generate valid JSON 100% of the time" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Show%20HN:%20LLMs%20can%20generate%20valid%20JSON%20100%25%20of%20the%20time&subheading=Tuesday,%20August%2015,%202023:%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
