---
slug: '/2023/08/28'
---

# 2023-08-28

## [A new method to reprogram human cells to better mimic embryonic stem cells](https://www.uwa.edu.au/news/Article/2023/August/Scientists-find-way-to-wipe-a-cells-memory-to-reprogram-it-as-a-stem-cell)

- Australian scientists have developed a new method called TNT reprogramming to make human cells act more like embryonic stem cells.
- The method aims to erase the cell's memory and reduce differences between induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells and embryonic stem (ES) cells.
- This breakthrough could advance cell therapies and biomedical research, according to the researchers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37286860)

- Researchers have devised a new method to reprogram human cells, making them more similar to embryonic stem cells and potentially improving induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) for research purposes.
- The conversation delves into the possibility of using drugs to address health issues resulting from unhealthy lifestyles, as well as the impact of obesity on cancer rates.
- There is a discussion about preserving stem cells for medical interventions, extending human life, and ongoing research on halting aging and reversing its effects.

## [Where do fonts come from? Monotype, mostly](https://thehustle.co/where-do-fonts-come-from/)

- Monotype, a dominant player in the font industry, is posing challenges for independent font designers who struggle to compete and make a living.
- Monotype's market dominance and acquisitions make it difficult for independent designers to thrive, as they take a significant portion of their earnings.
- Independent designers also face issues with unauthorized use of their fonts by big corporations.
- Monotype is planning to introduce a subscription model for its MyFonts marketplace, raising concerns that it may primarily benefit Monotype.
- Monotype is exploring the use of AI for font discovery, but font designers argue that AI cannot replicate the human story and meaning behind fonts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37283860)

- The discussion encompasses various aspects of fonts, such as their origins, copyright concerns, and support for independent designers.
- Participants engage in conversations about font rendering on different operating systems and the selection and combination of fonts for design purposes.
- Monopolies in the font industry and the influence of private equity firms are also explored, with a focus on the availability, quality, and effectiveness of open-source and commercial fonts.

## [111,111.1 meters is reliably 1 degree of latitude](https://gis.stackexchange.com/a/2964/5599)

- Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Stack Exchange is a platform for cartographers, geographers, and GIS professionals to ask and answer questions.
- A user is seeking an algorithm to offset latitude and longitude coordinates by a specific distance in meters for their work on an embedded system.
- Vincenty's direct formula is suggested as a potentially helpful algorithm for this purpose, as it is known for its speed and accuracy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37284487)

- The discussion explores the reliability of 1 degree of latitude as a unit of measurement and the limitations of latitude and longitude coordinates.
- It delves into the history and redefinitions of the meter, highlighting the advantages and disadvantages of different measurement systems like metric and imperial.
- It addresses the resistance to metrication in the US and the confusion caused by the imperial system, while also discussing the realness and usefulness of nautical miles. Additionally, it touches on unit conversions and the complexities of measurements in different contexts.

## [Overthewire.org](https://overthewire.org/wargames/)

- The OverTheWire community provides wargames to help individuals learn and practice security concepts.
- These games can be accessed through SSH on various ports.
- The community offers a chat platform for users to seek assistance, ask questions, or provide suggestions. Plus, there is a donation plea available for those interested in supporting the community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37281745)

- Overthewire.org is a website that provides wargames for learning about computer security and hacking.
- Participants in the discussion share their experiences with the challenges and recommend other similar resources.
- Some participants note that these types of challenges are becoming less relevant due to advancements in security measures like ASLR and better compiler warnings.

## [Some of the error messages produced by Apple's MPW C compiler (2006)](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~jasonh/personal/humor/compile.html)

- The summary consists of error messages from Apple's MPW C compiler, decompiled from the String resources.
- The error messages include humorous and sarcastic remarks about programming errors and limitations of the compiler.
- Copyright concerns are also mentioned in the summary.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37283375)

- The discussion on Hacker News covers various topics related to software development, including error messages from Apple's MPW C compiler in 2006 and the challenges of compiling old code.
- Users express nostalgia for older programs and discuss issues such as software bloat, compiler limitations, and expensive RAM prices from Apple.
- Other topics discussed include memory management in Apple Silicon Macs, different programming languages' comment delimiters, SSD wear, European Union's battery regulations, void pointers in C programming, and the desire for nested block comments in programming languages.

## [I Can Eat Glass](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I_Can_Eat_Glass)

- "I Can Eat Glass" was a linguistic project started by Ethan Mollick in the early days of the internet.
- The project aimed to translate the phrase into various languages, resulting in over 150 translations.
- Although the original webpage is no longer available, the project gained popularity and became an internet meme, providing humorous translations for tourists.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37283636)

- The article focuses on a translation project called "I Can Eat Glass" that explores the various translations of this phrase in different languages.
- The conversation includes anecdotes, historical context, and comparisons between translations, providing an entertaining and lighthearted tone.
- Additionally, the article touches on topics such as internet nostalgia, meme archives, and the safety of eating glass, adding depth to the discussion.

## [WTFPython: Exploring and understanding Python through surprising snippets](https://github.com/satwikkansal/wtfpython)

- "wtfpython" is a project that delves into the hidden aspects and lesser-known features of Python using intriguing code snippets.
- It covers a wide range of topics, such as Python concepts, optimizations, unexpected behaviors, common misconceptions, and programming tips.
- The project offers a resource called "wtfpython" that provides detailed explanations and examples, and encourages contributions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37281692)

- The "is" operator in Python is discussed as having advantages over the "==" operator.
- The quirks and criticisms of JavaScript and Python are explored, including debates on surprise factors and the use of vulgarities in programming languages.
- No specific new or exciting developments or releases mentioned.

## [Python Type Hints – \*args and \*\*kwargs (2021)](https://adamj.eu/tech/2021/05/11/python-type-hints-args-and-kwargs/)

- The blog post explores the usage of Python's variable argument operators, \*args and \*\*kwargs, in conjunction with type hints.
- The incorrect method of declaring types for args and kwargs is discussed, highlighting the need to define the types of the contained arguments.
- The Python Enhancement Proposal (PEP) 484 is referenced as a basis for the correct approach, which involves specifying the types of the individual arguments.
- The post concludes with an example that successfully passes type checks, showcasing the effectiveness of the recommended method.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37282385)

- The discussion revolves around several Python topics, such as type hints, function signatures, inheritance, traits, keyword arguments, slicing, variadic functions, surnames, and documentation.
- Participants share their personal experiences, frustrations, and suggestions for dealing with these challenges.
- A diverse range of topics and perspectives are covered, providing valuable insights for Python developers.

## [Scrum is a cancer](https://twitter.com/svpino/status/1695806027256475777)

- The author of the tweet strongly criticizes Scrum, arguing that it makes software teams ineffective.
- Two anecdotes are provided to support the negative opinion, one about using Poker as a planning tool and another about the belief that adding process improves efficiency.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37289151)

- There is debate surrounding the implementation and effectiveness of Scrum and Agile methodologies in software development teams.
- Some individuals find Scrum helpful for team productivity, while others criticize its bureaucratic nature.
- Challenges discussed include finding and retaining talented programmers, as well as concerns about workload and pressure within the Scrum framework.

## [Mother is arrested in Bangladesh after son in US criticizes government online](https://www.nbcnews.com/news/asian-america/mother-arrested-bangladesh-son-us-criticizes-government-online-rcna101392)

- A mother in Bangladesh has been arrested due to her son's Facebook post criticizing the government.
- The son, a Ph.D. student in the U.S., expressed frustration over his mother's detention, which he believes was a result of his post.
- This incident raises concerns about censorship and persecution of people in the Bangladeshi diaspora who speak out against the government.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37283128)

- A mother in Bangladesh was arrested because her son criticized the government online.
- The issue of arresting individuals for online criticism is not limited to Bangladesh and may have geopolitical implications.
- The conversation explores topics such as online anonymity, nonviolent resistance, and the political situation in Bangladesh.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="A new method to reprogram human cells to better mimic embryonic stem cells" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=A%20new%20method%20to%20reprogram%20human%20cells%20to%20better%20mimic%20embryonic%20stem%20cells&subheading=Monday%2C%20August%2028%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
