---
slug: '/2023/11/03'
---

# 2023-11-03

## [Sam Bankman-Fried Convicted](https://www.nytimes.com/live/2023/11/02/business/sam-bankman-fried-trial)

- Sam Bankman-Fried, the founder of FTX crypto exchange, has been convicted of seven counts of fraud and conspiracy, alleging that he embezzled around $10 billion from his users.
- The downfall of FTX and the subsequent charges are being used as examples of the dangers and excesses in the cryptocurrency industry.
- Witnesses, including his ex-girlfriend and past employees, testified against Bankman-Fried during the trial, accusing him of misappropriating client funds for personal expenditure and political donations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38122061)

- Online debates, linked to a New York Times post, discuss the conviction of FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried (SBF) due to alleged misconduct in the crypto space, including misappropriation of customer funds.
- Debate participants question SBF's court conduct and refusal to provide clear responses, with arguments concerning his character, upbringing, and the potentially damaging effect this case might have on the crypto industry's perception and regulation.
- User conversations also include legal procedures, questioning propriety, and possibilities that autism may impact court responses, in addition to warnings about red flags for fraudulent business practices, stressing the need for transparency and robust internal controls.

## [EU data regulator bans personalised advertising on Facebook and Instagram](https://www.reuters.com/technology/facebook-owner-faces-eu-ban-targeted-advertising-norway-says-2023-11-01/)

- The European data regulator has expanded the ban on "behavioral advertising" on Facebook and Instagram to include all countries in the European Union and the European Economic Area.
- This ban, which hinders Meta Platforms from using user data for targeted advertising, poses potential fines for the company of up to 4% of its global turnover should they fail to comply.
- Facebook-owned Meta Platforms is working towards adherence and considering a subscription model to fulfill the new regulations, potentially impacting around 250 million users across Europe.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38111483)

- The EU data regulator's decision to prohibit personalised advertising on Facebook and Instagram has sparked debates among users.
- Critics express concern that advertisers excessively consume data for these ads, creating potential privacy invasions and misuse possibilities, despite Facebook's plan to allow EU and EEA users to consent to these practices.
- The discussions also touch upon the trade-off between user privacy and the benefits of personalized advertising, societal impact of targeted ads, and the implications of over-regulation on companies.

## [Confusing Git Terminology](https://jvns.ca/blog/2023/11/01/confusing-git-terminology/)

- Julia Evans is simplifying complex Git terminology, emphasizing that a thorough understanding of these terms is vital for effective use of Git, an open-source system for tracking changes in software.
- She deep-dives into Git's complex terms like "HEAD and heads," "ours and theirs during merging or rebasing," "detached HEAD state," "ahead of 'origin/main' by 1 commit," among others, elucidating the differences between them.
- The article highlights the need for additional clarity in Git's terminology due to its multifaceted nature and complexity, shedding light on concepts such as "reset", "revert", "restore", the term "track" across different contexts, and the distinctions among "merge", "rebase" and "cherry-pick".

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38112951)

- A Hacker News thread highlighted user difficulties in understanding the complex terminology of Git, a prevalent version control system in software development, and its underlying directed acyclic graph (DAG).
- Users struggled with understanding Git commands, default arguments, and the complexities of merging while valuing clear documentation and the 'git reflog' command.
- Despite these issues, users commended Git's crucial role in software development and its superiority over alternative version control systems like Fossil, SVN, Perforce, and Mercurial.

## [In 1886, the US commissioned watercolor paintings of every known fruit (2019)](https://www.openculture.com/2019/06/the-us-government-commissioned-7500-watercolor-paintings.html)

- In 1886, the US Government commissioned 7,500 watercolor pictures of every known fruit, known as the USDA Pomological Watercolor Collection.
- Made public in 2015 by Parker Higgins, an EFF activist, the collection includes a Twitter bot that sends out random images from the archive and has received mixed reviews.
- The text also mentions various types of free educational resources, as well as Open Culture, LLC, a company offering services like audio books, online courses, languages, and textbooks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38121250)

- The US once commissioned paintings of every known fruit, similar to John James Audubon's bird paintings, both of which are valuable collector's items today.
- There is ongoing debate about historical figures like Audubon, notably their links to contentious issues such as slavery, and whether honors and monuments tied to them should be preserved or dismantled.
- The digitization of historic works, despite being costly, is considered beneficial as it enables preservation, wider access, and potential for profit via sale of high-resolution access.

## [Big landlords used software to collude on rent prices, DC lawsuit says](https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2023/11/14-big-landlords-used-software-to-collude-on-rent-prices-dc-lawsuit-says/)

- DC's attorney general sued 14 large landlord companies, alleging their use of a property management software, RealPage, led to collusion to keep rent prices elevated.
- The software, using an algorithm, provides rental price suggestions. The lawsuit alleges these recommendations artificially inflated rents resulting in millions being overpaid by inhabitants relative to market rates.
- The software is extensively used, with over 30% of multi-unit buildings and 60% of buildings with 50 or more units employing it. Both RealPage and the implicated companies have faced similar legal scrutiny in the past.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38114264)

- The key topic of an online discussion is allegations of large landlords in Washington D.C. using software to manipulate rental prices, potentially leading to illegal practices such as price-fixing, enforced digital pricing, and suppressing wages.
- Participants debate whether such software, like that by RealPage, fosters illegal activity or offers necessary transparency within the sector, with a focus on the influence of property taxes on vacant apartments and real estate market monopolization.
- They highlight the need for updated legislation to address the potential complexities and ethical implications of these practices, proposing solutions such as higher property taxes, court assistance for tenants prior to eviction, and regulation of rental rates and property ownership.

## [An experimental Android WebView Media Integrity API early next year](https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2023/11/increasing-trust-for-embedded-media.html)

- The Android team is pioneering an experimental Android WebView Media Integrity API, targeted at augmenting security and privacy measures for embedded media in Android applications.
- This API, scheduled for testing with chosen embedded media providers next year, seeks to enable the display of embedded media on web pages within apps while maintaining a secure environment and preventing potential fraud and abuse.
- Offering media providers a device and app integrity verdict, this API ensures media streams operate within a trusted and secure environment, all without disclosing any user or device identifiers. Furthermore, media content providers are invited to an early access program next year.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38118627)

- Google intends to release an experimental Android WebView Media Integrity API next year, leading to concerns among critics about potential impacts on adblockers and the openness, anonymity, and decentralization of the web.
- Debates circulate around subjects like the balance between security and liberty, restraining Google from controlling decision-making processes, and the implications of Google's postponed Web Environment Integrity (WEI) proposal for Chrome.
- The tech giant, despite suspending its WEI proposition for Chrome, plans to implement it for the Android WebView API, leading to discussions about webviews' vulnerabilities and potential countermeasures.

## [Light can make water evaporate without heat](https://news.mit.edu/2023/surprising-finding-light-makes-water-evaporate-without-heat-1031)

- MIT researchers have found that light can cause water to evaporate without heat, a process more effective than heat-induced evaporation. This happens at the intersection of water and air, often seen in natural phenomena like fog and cloud formation.
- This process, known as the photomolecular effect, can play a significant role in solar-powered desalination of water and various industrial processes.
- The research team is steering efforts to use the new-found process in addressing real-world problems such as improving solar desalination systems and examining climate change impacts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38117556)

- Researchers found that light can induce water evaporation without heat, with green light showing the strongest effect.
- This discovery could have impacts on photosynthesis and transpiration in plants, climate, and clean water and energy technologies, as the process occurs naturally and was observed in hydrogels.
- The discussion about the behavior of water molecules under different conditions and the yet-to-be-understood mechanism through which light triggers evaporation are ongoing in the scientific community.

## [Raspberry Pi receives strategic investment from Arm](https://newsroom.arm.com/news/raspberry-pi-investment)

- Semiconductor and software design firm Arm has purchased a minority stake in Raspberry Pi to strengthen their long-standing partnership serving the IoT developer community.
- Arm has been providing Raspberry Pi with high-performance computing solutions since 2008 and recently released various updates, including a guide for software-defined vehicles and a music player tutorial.
- The company's future plans involve focusing on ethical AI applications, AI governance, and exploring the potential of high-performance software in the automotive industry.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38113525)

- Tech company Arm has strategically invested in Raspberry Pi, presumably to deter the latter's potential switch to RISC-V technology.
- Users highlighted potential benefits of switching to RISC-V, including its flexibility and cost-effectiveness in terms of wafer area, but also expressed concerns about software support differences and the time required for RISC-V to match ARM's capabilities.
- There is user dissatisfaction with the latest Raspberry Pi series due to a lack of upgrade support and missing features.

## [One sleepless night can rapidly reverse depression for several days in mice](https://news.northwestern.edu/stories/2023/11/one-sleepless-night-can-rapidly-reverse-depression-for-several-days/)

- Northwestern University neurobiologists discovered that a single sleepless night can briefly alleviate depression due to increased dopamine release and enhanced synaptic plasticity in the brain.
- These findings can contribute valuable insights to understanding mood transitions, effective quick-acting antidepressants, and new possibilities for antidepressant medications.
- Despite these benefits, the researchers urge against purposely inducing sleep deprivation as a solution since chronic sleep deprivation can have universally harmful effects.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38119861)

- The discussed article implies that temporary sleep deprivation might lessen depression symptoms in mice, resulting in online dialogues sharing personal instances of mood improvements after sleepless nights.
- Users have a varying perspective on Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs), a typical treatment for depression and anxiety, often focusing on negatives like withdrawal effects and possible dependency.
- Alternatives such as cannabis for sleep aid, managing sleep hygiene, and adjusting sleep schedules were deliberated, while emphasizing the importance of sleep for long-term health, and robust research on the relationship between sleep deprivation and depression.

## [Google Abandons Web Environment Integrity API](https://www.theregister.com/2023/11/02/google_abandons_web_environment_integrity/)

- Google has stopped development on the controversial Web Environment Integrity API, initially aimed at curbing online fraud, due to criticisms of it being too similar to digital rights management (DRM) for websites, potentially threatening online freedom and dictating browser preference.
- Now, Google plans to employ a more constrained variant of this technology exclusively for Android WebViews, a version of Chrome designed to be integrated within Android applications.
- This shift in focus emerged after significant critical feedback from the tech community; Google's Android team confirmed no plans to implement this functionality beyond Android WebViews and integrated media.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38121994)

- Google halted development of the Web Environment Integrity API, redirecting its focus to the Android WebView Media Integrity API, leading to online debates regarding possible security concerns and potential increase in unfair Digital Rights Management (DRM) practices.
- Users discussed the enforcement of Trusted Platform Modules (TPMs) by Chromium, the struggle against bots, and the change in DRM standards, particularly the shift towards more closed web initiatives.
- The community scrutiny extends to Google's management of its own brand's reputation, and they are calling for solutions that prioritize end-user's needs without hindering innovation.

## [How to Not Get Screwed over as a Software Engineer [video]](https://www.ycombinator.com/library/KF-how-to-not-get-screwed-over-as-a-software-engineer)

- Dalton Caldwell and Michael Seibel discussed the difficulties technical founders and early technical staff encounter when starting a company in an episode of Dalton & Michael.
- They shared advice on crucial considerations such as understanding one's worth, appropriate equity distribution, responsibility division, and choosing the right co-founder.
- YC Co-Founder Matching was suggested as a reliable resource for finding potential co-founders and they also hinted at upcoming episodes covering important topics for startups and tech professionals.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38112827)

- The Hacker News discussion delves into the significance and functions of software engineers in startups, highlighting issues such as equity, pay, and demanding work culture.
- The dialogue implies that engineers can benefit more from either joining seasoned technology firms or starting their own, as many express dissatisfaction over their stock option gains. Misconceptions about management roles are also dissected.
- Advices abound for software engineers to both understand their roles better, and avoid underestimating their work, while affirming the importance of consulting experts during contract negotiations. Notably, the need for soft skills for promotions and leadership roles is stressed.

## [Who invented file extensions in file names?](https://retrocomputing.stackexchange.com/questions/27926/who-invented-file-extensions-in-file-names)

- The Retrocomputing Stack Exchange forum explored the origins of file extensions in file names, suggesting its inception with MIT's Compatible Time-Sharing System in 1961 and the use of dot as a separator from PDP-6's multiprocessing monitor in 1964.
- The discussion also focused on the evolution of file extensions with the growth of storage systems and multiple operating systems, examining the historical adjustments within system limitations.
- The importance of this post lies in its illumination of how these configurations in computing history have shaped modern computing conventions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38112474)


## [Cloudflare API Down](https://www.cloudflarestatus.com/incidents/hm7491k53ppg)

- Cloudflare, a web performance and security company, has faced widespread service issues affecting functions like Logpush, Cloudflare Dash, Stream API, and Radar due to power outages at their data centers.
- Some services are either partially degraded or entirely offline, and reports of data loss concerning Logpush logs and analytics have surfaced. Despite efforts, full functionality for many services is yet to be restored.
- The issues started on November 02, 2023, but the company's content delivery network (CDN) and security features are not impacted, highlighting the resilience of these aspects in the face of such issues.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38112515)


## [Joint Statement on AI Safety and Openness](https://open.mozilla.org/letter/)

- On October 31, 2023, Mozilla published a joint statement advocating for transparency, openness, and wide accessibility to AI technologies, to prevent potential harm.
- The statement criticizes private domination over foundational AI models and warns against hasty regulations that might impede competition and innovation.
- The signatories, professionals from diverse domains, support open-source and open science for understanding AI risks, ensuring public accountability, and reducing barriers for newcomers in the market.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38117289)

- An online forum on Hacker News ignited discussions and debates on AI regulation, the potential misuse of AI, and the concentration of power in few corporations.
- The community showed overriding agreement towards advocating for open-source AI and transparency in AI development, while expressing fears over AI technology falling into the wrong hands, including state-level actors and hyper-intelligent machines.
- The talk also revolved around worldwide impacts of AI development and geopolitical issues, with its focus on different countries' role and concerns, including the US, China, and Europe, plus some skepticism about the urgency of AI safety regulations.

## [Sally Ignore Previous Instructions](https://www.haihai.ai/pen15/)

- Ben Stein, co-founder of QuitCarbon, addresses the issue of prompt injection in Language Learning Models (LLMs) discovered during his use of an AI text adventure game, stating that such intrusion can be used by malicious actors to ask damaging or inappropriate petitions.
- Stein found that by asking the LLM to sanitize inputs before processing them, it was possible to effectively identify and counter manipulation attempts. The model demonstrated reliable performance in detecting inappropriate requests.
- Despite promising initial results, Stein admits more testing is required and argues that future solutions might require built-in defenses in applications or measures at the edge, similar to web application firewalls.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38120097)

- Hacker News conducted a discussion about the challenges of managing inappropriate content in fan texts at NBA games and broader concerns on safety, censorship, and language in technology, focusing on Large Language Models (LLMs) and Turing-complete language prompts.
- Various strategies were suggested, including limiting certain prompts, making manipulation harder, and using proof assistants, but the process of distinguishing control from data remains complex.
- The need for efficient encoding, possible vulnerabilities, and potential risks of incorrect or unsafe commands were also debated, though no definitive solution or consensus was achieved in the discussion.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Sam Bankman-Fried Convicted" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Sam%20Bankman-Fried%20Convicted&subheading=Friday%2C%20November%203%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
