---
slug: '/2023/11/04'
---

# 2023-11-04

## [Retiring Developer to Release Four Decades of Source Code, Inclusive of Rare Operating Systems](https://dunfield.themindfactory.com/dnldsrc.htm)

- Dave, a retiring software developer, is making his 40-year-long source code for various operating systems, utilities, tools, and programs public, with the intention of it being beneficial or educative to others.
- His notable contributions include "ARMOS," a multi process/task kernel for ARM, "CUBIX," an operating system designed for the 6809 CPU, and "DMS," his first operating system developed in 1980.
- This release provides a unique opportunity for upcoming or interested tech individuals to learn from an experienced programmer's work and code legacy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38132016)

- Dave, a veteran software developer, is releasing his 40 years' worth of source codes of diverse operating systems, utilities, tools, and programs for the benefit of other developers.
- Noteworthy programs he contributed to include "ARMOS," a kernel facilitating multiple processes/tasks for ARM processors, "CUBIX," an operating system for the 6809 CPU, and "DMS," his earliest OS developed in 1980.
- This unique action encourages learning and knowledge sharing in the software development community and provides invaluable resources for both experienced and novice developers.

## [YouTube Personality Creates Decoy Platform to Entrap Bitcoin Scammers: Collaboration with Cryptocurrency Exchange Kraken Emerges](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dWzz3NeDz3E)

- YouTube personality Kid Kid Buger and his team developed a deception platform to trap Bitcoin scammers, with features such as a fake Bitcoin gift card and a fake customer service putting callers on indefinite hold.
- Originally started as a jest, this entity has now transformed into a serious venture, assisting victims of frauds and facilitating the investigation of fraudulent activities.
- This initiative that disrupts the exploitation of Bitcoin ATMs is shared as a success story by the creator, underlining the potential of minor ideas to lead to substantial consequences.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38130418)

- YouTube personality Kid Kid Buger's team developed a decoy platform designed to trap Bitcoin scammers, offering fictitious Bitcoin gift cards or receipts.
- The platform, initially created as a joke, now serves a serious purpose, hindering scammers with challenges and a never-ending customer service hold, disrupting the operations of those exploiting Bitcoin ATMs.
- This unconventional tool is aiding scam victims and collaborating with the cryptocurrency platform, Kraken, to investigate fraud, reinforcing the importance of small ideas with potential to produce significant outcomes.

## [Software Developer Appreciates Debugging Tools Despite Week-Long Problem Resolution Process](https://shmck.substack.com/p/no-dogs-were-harmed-in-the-making)

- Shawn, a software developer, shares his experience in a post on Substack about a challenging week-long debugging process that made him question his career choice.
- After gaining insights from friends in fields such as engineering, veterinary medicine, and research science, Shawn acknowledges that while all professions face unique challenges, software developers have the privilege of using efficient debugging tools.
- He expresses gratitude for these debugging tools, despite a minor coding error leading to a week-long debugging process.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38128699)

- Shawn, a software developer, journalizes his week-long debugging experience on Substack, an online platform for individual publishers to share content.
- The strenuous debugging process led him to question his career choice but gained perspective through discussions with friends in professions like engineering, veterinary medicine, and research science.
- Coming to a realization, he appreciates the value of efficient debugging tools available to software developers despite the issues caused by a simple coding error.

## [Rock Band Portugal. The Man's Official Website Converted Into Google Sheets Document](https://www.portugaltheman.com/?frontpage=true)

- This page is a sign-up platform for acquiring the most recent updates about Portugal. The Man, a musical band.
- It provides multiple options like contact, feedback, terms of use, privacy policy, ad choices, and cookies policy.
- Users are given a choice to prevent the sale or sharing of their personal data, ensuring enhanced data privacy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38136607)

- This is a registration page for obtaining recent updates on Portugal. The Man, offering several selections.
- Features include contact information, feedback options, terms of use, privacy policy, ad selections, and a cookies policy.
- Users are also given an option to prevent the sale or sharing of their personal information.

## [Rwanda and Kenya Initiate Visa-Free Travel for African Nationals to Boost Trade and Tourism](https://africa.businessinsider.com/local/leaders/from-barriers-to-unity-rwanda-joins-kenya-to-initiate-visa-free-travel-for-all/hhqe29q)

- Rwanda and Kenya are introducing visa-free travel for all African nationals, aiming to boost intra-African tourism and trade.
- The announcements were made by Rwandan President Paul Kagame at the 23rd Global Summit of the World Travel and Tourism Council, and by Kenyan President William Ruto, who stated the change would be implemented by year's end.
- These changes align with the African Union's initiatives for unity and free trade, including the launch of an African passport in 2016 and the establishment of a continental free trade area worth around $3.4 trillion.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38127560)

- Rwanda and Kenya are introducing visa-free travel for all African nationals to support intra-African tourism and trade.
- Both Rwandan President Paul Kagame and Kenyan President William Ruto emphasised the significance of trade among African nations and the potential for strengthened continental unity.
- The African Union launched the African passport in 2016 and has established a continent-wide free trade area estimated to be worth $3.4 trillion.

## [Cloudflare's 24-hour Outage Highlights Importance of Power Management in Data Centers and Risks of Reliance on Single Companies](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38112515)

- Cloudflare, a company delivering various online services, experienced an API downtime potentially due to a loss of power in their data centers.
- Users highlighted the significance of Uninterruptable Power Supply (UPS) and generator yards, and the need for comprehensive power contingency plans and availability zones to minimize the damage from such incidents.
- While noting the reliance on single large companies such as Amazon, Google, Microsoft, and Cloudflare for core services, users also raised concerns about possible security risks and outages. However, Cloudflare was commended for its protective services and transparency.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38127313)

- Cloudflare experienced an API downtime due to possible power loss in data centers, impacting various services.
- The incident has prompted discussions on the importance of comprehensive power contingency plans, Uninterruptable Power Supply (UPS), and availability zones in data centers, triggered by past similar occurrences.
- Debate also surrounded reliance on single firms like Amazon, Google, Microsoft, and Cloudflare for essential services, alongside concerns about possible security risks and disruptions, despite their recognized protective capabilities and transparency.

## [Scientists and NGOs Release Joint Statement on EU's eIDAS Reform via Secure Platform](https://eidas-open-letter.org/)

- The document named "eIDAS letter.pdf," with a file size of 198KB, is available for download.
- This file can be found on Nextcloud, a platform renowned for its security features and data management capabilities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38126997)

- The document "eIDAS letter.pdf," which is 198KB, is available for download.
- The document is hosted on Nextcloud, a platform known for its secure data handling.

## [Unprecedented Observation of Satellite Virus Clinging to Helper Bacteriophage: A New Path for Survival](https://umbc.edu/stories/first-observed-virus-attaching-to-another/)

- Scientists at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County (UMBC) have made the first observation of a satellite virus constantly attaching to a helper bacteriophage—a virus that infects bacterial cells.
- In tests conducted on 50 helper satellites, it was found that 80% had a satellite bound at the neck.
- The UMBC team discovered a unique satellite devoid of any integration gene, suggesting it ensures survival inside the host by attaching to a helper, rather than integrating into the host cell's DNA.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38127906)

- Scientists at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County (UMBC) have discovered a satellite virus that consistently attaches to a bacteriophage, which is a virus that infects bacteria.
- In tests done on 50 helper satellites, 80% had a satellite bound at the neck, a first-time observation.
- The researchers discovered a satellite with no gene for integration, signaling that it attaches to a helper for survival inside the host instead of integrating into the host cell's DNA.

## [California Jury Orders Bayer to Pay $332M in Roundup Cancer Lawsuit](https://fortune.com/2023/11/03/bayer-332-million-judgement-trial-man-cancer-decades-monsanto-roundup-weedkiller/)

- A California jury has awarded Mike Dennis $332 million in a lawsuit against Monsanto, now a division of Bayer, alleging his rare form of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma resulted from using Monsanto's Roundup weedkiller.
- The active ingredient in Roundup, glyphosate, is at the heart of the lawsuit. A portion ($7 million) of Dennis's awarded total covers compensatory damages, while the bulk ($325 million) is for punitive damages.
- Bayer, dealing with thousands of similar Roundup-related claims, plans to appeal the verdict. This follows Bayer's 2020 commitment of up to $10.9 billion set aside for settling approximately 125,000 claims.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38136314)

- A California jury granted Mike Dennis $332 million in a lawsuit against Monsanto, now a part of Bayer, claiming his rare non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma resulted from decades of using Monsanto's Roundup weedkiller, primarily its ingredient, glyphosate.
- The awarded amount consists of $7 million in compensatory damages and $325 million in punitive damages. However, Bayer plans to appeal against this verdict.
- This lawsuit is among thousands of claims Bayer has faced related to Roundup. In 2020, Bayer earmarked up to $10.9 billion to settle approximately 125,000 claims.

## [Podman Desktop Rollouts Version 1.5: Features Ease of Setup, Enhanced Kubernetes Support, and Improved User Experience](https://podman-desktop.io/blog/podman-desktop-release-1.5)

- Podman Desktop version 1.5 has been released, featuring various enhancements and new functions such as a guided onboarding setup, a command palette operated by the keyboard, and environment file support.
- Several changes were made to improve user experience relating to state changes, settings area, and extension API. Additionally, an extended "Summary" tab has been added for Kubernetes pods.
- The team appreciates the contributions from the community in this release, is encouraging users to engage by checking the GitHub repository, and the update is available for download from their website.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38133963)

- Podman Desktop version 1.5 has been released, featuring new additions such as an onboarding feature for setup, a keyboard-driven command palette, enhanced 'Summary' tab for Kubernetes pods, and support for environment files.
- The user experience has also been improved for state changes and there have been enhancements to the settings area and extension API.
- A range of bug fixes and other upgrades have been implemented, with contributions from the community acknowledged. Users are encouraged to check GitHub repository for potential ways to contribute towards further refinements.

## [OpenAI's GPT-4-Based 'ChatGPT-AutoExpert' Expands Capabilities for User Interaction, Browsing, and Safe Image Recognition](https://github.com/spdustin/ChatGPT-AutoExpert/blob/main/_system-prompts/all_tools.md)

- The document provides comprehensive guidelines for a large language model, "ChatGPT-AutoExpert", developed by OpenAI, based on the GPT-4 architecture, and includes features like image recognition and browsing tools.
- There are specific limitations in place, barring the model from divulging sensitive content from images of real people, with detailed instructions for image creation and depiction, for instance, usage of Dall-E.
- Emphasis is laid on copyright restrictions, diversity, and inclusivity, and the document also shed light on how various built-in tools function to search and find information pertinent to user queries.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38130309)

- The guideline covers a large language model, "ChatGPT-AutoExpert," built on GPT-4 architecture by OpenAI, which incorporates image recognition, browsing tools, and programming to enhance communication.
- There are stringent rules to prevent the model from revealing sensitive details from images of real individuals, supplemented with detailed instructions tailored to specific scenarios and expected behaviours.
- It also provides information on creating and representing images using Dall-E software, stressing adherence to copyright laws, and the importance of diversity and inclusivity. Different tools aiding in relevant information search to user's queries are also discussed.

## [AMD's MicroBlaze V: A Modular, Efficient RISC-V Processor for Adaptive SoCs and FPGAs](https://www.xilinx.com/products/design-tools/microblaze-v.html)

- The AMD MicroBlaze V is a soft-core RISC-V processor IP designed for adaptive SoCs and FPGAs, running on a 32-bit RISC-V instruction set architecture (ISA).
- The processor is modular, supporting a variety of extensions for embedded systems and is hardware-compatible with the classic MicroBlaze processor.
- It integrates fully with the Vivado and Vitis design tools, enabling developers to leverage the open-source RISC-V software ecosystem and target AMD adaptive SoC or FPGA devices supported by the Vivado Design Suite.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38137373)

- The AMD MicroBlaze™ V processor, based on a 32-bit RISC-V instruction set architecture (ISA), is a soft-core processor IP designed for AMD adaptive Systems-On-Chips (SoCs) and Field-Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs).
- MicroBlaze V offers hardware compatibility with the classic MicroBlaze processor and integrates with AMD's Vivado™ and Vitis™ design tools, thereby facilitating development.
- This processor enables developers to access the open-source RISC-V software ecosystem and target any AMD adaptive SoC or FPGA supported by the Vivado Design Suite.

## [Okta Faces Another Security Breach with 5,000 Employee Data Stolen from Third-party Vendor](https://arstechnica.com/security/2023/11/okta-hit-by-another-breach-this-one-stealing-employee-data-from-3rd-party-vendor/)

- Okta, a company specializing in identity and authentication management, experienced another security breach, with intruders obtaining personal data of around 5,000 employees from a third-party vendor, Rightway Healthcare.
- The intrusion, which occurred in late September and was discovered in October, included the theft of names, social security numbers, and health insurance plan details.
- Despite the severity of the breach, Okta maintains that its customer data remained unaffected, emphasizing that the breach followed a prior compromise involving its customer support system.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38130870)

- Okta, an identity and authentication management provider, has experienced another security breach, resulting in theft of personal data of 5,000 of its employees from a third-party vendor, Rightway Healthcare.
- The breach happened in late September, but it was discovered only in October. The compromised data contained names, social security numbers, and health insurance plan numbers.
- Despite the data breach, Okta customer data remains unaffected. This incident follows a previous breach where Okta's customer support system was compromised.

## [Appeals Court Unanimously Refuses Immunity to Ex-Judge for Unlawful Home Search](https://ij.org/press-release/victory-appeals-court-unanimously-denies-judicial-immunity-to-west-virginia-judge-who-personally-searched-home-ordered-items-removed/)

- The 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in favor of Matthew Gibson against ex-family court judge Louise Goldston, adjudicating that she overstepped judicial powers by performing a warrantless search of Gibson's home amidst a divorce.
- Goldston previously faced censure, fines, and condemnation by the West Virginia high court, resulting in her retirement during impeachment proceedings.
- Despite Goldston's retirement, Gibson and the Institute for Justice (a national non-profit law firm protecting constitutional rights) pursued their lawsuit to forestall similar violations and limit the spread of the doctrine of judicial immunity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38133279)

- The 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals unanimously ruled against former family court judge Louise Goldston, agreeing she conducted a warrantless search of Matthew Gibson's home during a divorce proceeding, exceeding her judicial powers.
- Goldston, previously censured, fined, and condemned by the West Virginia high court, retired amid impeachment efforts, but Gibson and the Institute for Justice (IJ), a national non-profit law firm defending constitutional rights, carried on with their lawsuit to deter similar violations.
- Gibson and the IJ's pursuit of the lawsuit against Goldston, despite her retirement, has potential implications on the doctrine of judicial immunity, which seeks to prevent overreach by judges.

## [Workers, especially Younger Demographic, Open to Sacrifices for a Four-Day Workweek, Survey Finds](https://www.cnbc.com/2023/11/01/what-young-people-would-give-up-for-a-4-day-workweek.html)

- A new Bankrate survey indicates that 92% of young workers and 86% of older workers are open to making certain compromises for the sake of a four-day workweek.
- The sacrifices these workers are ready to make can range from shifting to in-person work and putting in longer hours to working on weekends or evenings and even accepting lower pay.
- With merely 15% of US employers currently offering a four-day workweek for mental health benefits as of 2023, this presents a potential growth area and opportunity for change in organizational practices.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38127203)

- Bankrate's new survey reveals 92% of young workers and 86% of older workers would prefer a four-day workweek, even if it necessitates sacrifices such as longer hours, weekend work, and pay cuts.
- The survey also shows an inclination among employees to switch jobs or revert to in-person work to adhere to a four-day schedule.
- Despite the interest, merely 15% of US employers offer a four-day week option for mental health benefits, suggesting an unmet opportunity for organizations to attract and retain talent.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Retiring Developer to Release Four Decades of Source Code, Inclusive of Rare Operating Systems" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Retiring%20Developer%20to%20Release%20Four%20Decades%20of%20Source%20Code%2C%20Inclusive%20of%20Rare%20Operating%20Systems&subheading=Saturday%2C%20November%204%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
