---
slug: '/2023/11/05'
---

# 2023-11-05

## [Computational Solution for Othello Uncovered: Game Can Always Lead to a Draw with Perfect Play, Says Scientist Hiroki Takizawa](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.19387)

- Hiroki Takizawa has released a paper declaring that the complex game of Othello has been computationally solved.
- Othello holds a significant challenge status in computer science due to its approximately ten octodecillion potential game records and ten octillion potential game positions.
- This achievement implies that it's now computationally proven that a perfect play by both players in Othello can lead to a draw.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38141366)

- A recent paper by Hiroki Takizawa reveals that the game of Othello, considered one of the world's most intricate games due to its numerous possible game records and positions, has been computationally solved.
- Othello has been a significant challenge for computer science due to its rough estimate of ten octodecillion possible game records and ten octillion possible game positions.
- The breakthrough implies that perfect play by both participants can be computationally demonstrated to result in a tie.

## [NewPipe: An Open-Source, Privacy-Friendly YouTube App for Diverse Android Users Now Supports Multiple Platforms](https://newpipe.net/)

- NewPipe is a lightweight, privacy-oriented YouTube application for Android devices aimed at providing an ad-free user experience on smartphones.
- As an open-source app available on GitHub, NewPipe offers a range of features including offline usage, subscriptions, video history, and compatibility with other platforms like PeerTube, SoundCloud, and Bandcamp.
- The app, powered by a growing community, encourages user contributions and translations, with the provision for quicker updates via addition of the F-Droid repository to the client.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38144400)

- NewPipe is an open-source, privacy-focused YouTube app for Android devices, designed to provide a user-friendly, ad-free YouTube experience without intrusive permissions.
- Besides YouTube, the app supports a range of platforms including PeerTube, SoundCloud, and Bandcamp. Its features include a background player, pop-up player, support for offline usage, subscriptions, bookmarks, and video history.
- The app's updates can be obtained faster by adding the F-Droid repository to the client, and it welcomes contributions and translations from users. As an open-source app, it's available free of charge on GitHub.

## [Latest Bevy 0.12 Game Engine Release Features Deferred Rendering, Improved Shadow Quality and Optimized Renderer](https://bevyengine.org/news/bevy-0-12/)

- Bevy 0.12 game engine was launched featuring several updates such as Deferred Rendering, Bevy Asset V2, PCF Shadow Filtering, and Renderer Optimizations.
- This version introduces Rusty Shader Imports, Suspend & Resume on Android, and Automatic Batching and Instancing of Draw Commands, among other enhancements.
- Despite significant updates for 2D and 3D games, forward mode is suggested due to broader device compatibility. Bevy Asset V2, in its initial phase, supports functions like Asset Importing and Recursive Asset Dependency Load Events.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38144417)

- Bevy 0.12, a new version of Bevy game engine, featuring updates like Deferred Rendering, Bevy Asset V2, PCF Shadow Filtering, StandardMaterial Light Transmission, and Renderer Optimizations.
- Additional features include new effects, improved support for asset configuration, enhanced shadow quality, better material simulation, Rusty Shader Imports, Suspend, Resume on Android, and Automatic Batching and Instancing of Draw Commands.
- While updates cater to both 2D and 3D games, forward mode is recommended for its widespread device compatibility. Bevy Asset V2, although in the initial stages, supports Asset Importing and Recursive Asset Dependency Load Events.

## [Improving Patient Control: The Advantages of Free Software in Medical Devices Over Proprietary Versions](https://www.fsf.org/blogs/community/software-that-supports-your-body-should-always-respect-your-freedom)

- The article critiques the disadvantages of proprietary software in medical devices, indicating the minimal control users have, leading to potential device malfunctions after updates.
- It proposes that if these devices ran on free software, users could make necessary alterations and rely on a developer community for timely bug solutions.
- The piece implores patients to question the type of software used in their medical aids and to favor free software over proprietary forms for enhanced control and reliability.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38143180)

- This article emphasizes the shortcomings of proprietary software in medical devices highlighting vulnerabilities due to uncontrollable software updates that may cause malfunctioning.
- It suggests that free software would empower users to make modifications and rely on a developer community for bug fixes, creating a more reliable and controllable system.
- The showcased solution encourages patients to investigate the software utilized in their medical devices and opt for free software instead of proprietary ones for better control and accountability.

## [Vintage Trimble GPS Receiver from 1993 Sparks Interest on Mastodon Network](https://mastodon.sdf.org/@keelan/111349948124943603)

- A user named Keelan on the social platform mastodon.sdf.org, powered by Mastodon, shared an image of a 1993 GPS receiver produced by Trimble that resembles an ambulance and includes a Motorola 68HC000 and 64k of RAM.
- Keelan is contemplating crafting a shadow box for the device and potentially incorporating an LED or LCD display to display current time and geographical location.
- Various fellow users entered the dialogue, speculating about the gadget's original function and remarking on its distinctive aesthetics.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38139687)

- User Keelan shared a picture of a 1993 GPS receiver, manufactured by Trimble, on Mastodon-powered social network mastodon.sdf.org. The device resembles an ambulance, integrates a Motorola 68HC000, and operates on 64k RAM.
- Keelan is contemplating creating a shadow box for preserving the receiver, potentially including an LED or LCD display to show current time and location.
- Other users joined the discussion, curious about the device's original function and commenting on its unique design.

## [Creating Custom Shortcut for Pasting Unformatted Text on macOS: A How-to Guide](https://scottswezey.com/always-paste-without-formatting-macos/)

- Scott Swezey provides a method for pasting unformatted text on macOS systems through the creation of a custom keyboard shortcut in the macOS settings App Shortcuts menu.
- He warns this solution may not be effective with all applications.
- Swezey also discusses the concept of "buying time," a communication skill, and shares coding specifics for individual programs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38141320)

- Scott Swezey suggests a method to paste unformatted text on macOS by creating a custom keyboard shortcut in the App Shortcuts menu.
- The method may not be applicable across all applications, as noted in the blog post.
- Aside from technical advice, Swezey also discusses the concept of "buying time" as a communication skill and provides codes for certain programs.

## [Revival of KDE Desktop Cube Effect Among Key Open-Source Desktop Developments](https://www.phoronix.com/news/KDE-Wayland-Color-Mgmt)

- KDE Developer Nate Graham has spotlighted numerous updates to the open-source desktop over two weeks in a weekly recap.
- Updates include the revival of the KDE Desktop Cube effect, individual screen color management for KDE Plasma Wayland, and significant performance enhancements for KRunner's "Recent Documents" feature.
- Other improvements include the resolution of several bugs, among them crashing issues within Plasma Wayland and Plasma's notifications system. More details can be found on Nate Graham's blog.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38141173)

- KDE Developer Nate Graham's weekly review announced several advancements for the open-source desktop over two weeks, including the reintroduction of the KDE Desktop Cube effect.
- There is a per-screen color management for KDE Plasma Wayland and significant performance enhancement for KRunner's "Recent Documents" runner.
- Several bugs have been fixed, including crashing problems related to Plasma Wayland and Plasma's notifications. More details can be found on Nate Graham's blog.

## [Exploring Solutions for Increasing Demand for USB-C Power: Atomic14 Highlights High-Capacity Board](https://atomic14.substack.com/p/i-need-more-usb-power)

- Atomic14, a blog and YouTube channel dedicated to electronic projects, recently highlighted the rising prevalence of USB-C powered devices in a recent post.
- The post reviews a board available on AliExpress which has four standard USB, as well as four USB-C ports, and is capable of delivering up to 65W of power.
- The author also promotes the channel's Discord group and mentions their affiliations with Amazon and AliExpress, before inviting readers to visit their YouTube channel.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38142606)

- The Atomic14 blog and YouTube channel recently discussed the growing prevalence of USB-C powered devices in the contemporary world.
- It highlights a device available on AliExpress, which boasts four standard USB and four USB-C sockets that can provide up to 65W of power.
- The writer encourages viewers to join their Discord group and visit the Atomic14 YouTube channel for further electronic project discussions.

## [Fermyon Launches Spin 2.0 to Build, Run and Distribute WebAssembly Apps in Cloud](https://www.fermyon.com/blog/introducing-spin-v2)

- Fermyon has introduced Spin 2.0, a tool for building, distributing, and operating WebAssembly (Wasm) applications on cloud platforms. It is portable and optimized for IoT scenarios.
- Spin 2.0 enhances the developer experience by enabling WebAssembly composition, boosting performance, and facilitating efficient data exchange among components without requiring knowledge of each other’s structure.
- The tool accentuates security by creating new Wasm instances for each request. Spin 2.0 is also expecting to incorporate the upcoming final version of WebAssembly System Interface (WASI), enhancing interoperability and language support.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38140242)

- Fermyon has released Spin 2.0, a tool for building, distributing, and running WebAssembly (Wasm) apps in the cloud, boosting performance and developer experience.
- Spin 2.0 supports portable applications across operating systems and IoT scenarios, allows different language components to exchange data efficiently, and heightens security by generating new Wasm instances for each request.
- Fermyon is preparing to implement the final version of the WebAssembly System Interface (WASI), which could enhance Spin's compatibility and support for various languages.

## [Former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's Assassination: An Attack Against the Unification Church's Influence in Japan](https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2023/10/shinzo-abe-assassination-japan-unification-church-moonies/675114/)

- Former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was assassinated in July 2022 in Nara, where he was supporting a lawmaker's reelection bid to the National Diet, Japan's parliament.
- The alleged attacker was instantly captured and stated that the intention behind the act was more than just Abe; it was meant as a broader attack against the Unification Church, also known as the Moonies.
- This event underlines the significant political influence of the Unification Church in Japan.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38140697)

- Former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was assassinated in July 2022 in Nara while endorsing a lawmaker for reelection to the National Diet, Japan's parliament.
- The alleged assassin was captured at the scene and claimed the act was not only aimed at Abe but against the Unification Church, also known as the Moonies, and it's political influence in Japan.
- This incident reflects a larger, possibly politically instigated, threat against the Unification Church in Japan.

## [Starfish Are Largely Heads Without Torsos or Tails, Reveals Genetic Study: Implications for Understanding Evolution and Biodiversity](https://www.cnn.com/2023/11/02/world/starfish-head-body-plan-scn/index.html)

- New genetic research suggests that starfish, or sea stars, possess predominantly head-like structures with evolutionary loss of distinct torsos or tails.
- This study, published in Nature, opens up potential discussion on the shared lineage between echinoderms (including starfish, sea urchins, and sea cucumbers) and humans.
- The research posits that the echinoderm body evolution process might be significantly more intricate than understood before. Studying these marine creatures could offer insights into Earth's life evolution and health of different species.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38141006)

- New genetic research suggests that starfish, or sea stars, are primarily heads without torsos or tails, having lost these features through evolution over time.
- This study could shed light on the shared ancestry between echinoderms (a group that includes starfish, sea urchins, and sea cucumbers) and humans, indicating that the echinoderm body evolved in a more complex manner than previously understood.
- The results of this research, published in the journal Nature, suggests that studying echinoderms may unveil further understandings about life evolution on Earth and contribute to comprehending the health of various species.

## [Microsoft Architect Advocates for a Simpler and Safer C++ with TypeScript Approach](https://herbsutter.com/2023/10/09/my-new-cppcon-talk-is-on-youtube-cooperative-c-evolution-toward-a-typescript-for-c/)

- Herb Sutter from Microsoft proposes making the programming language, C++, 10 times simpler and 50 times safer through a plan similar to TypeScript approach.
- This approach stands for seamless compatibility with current C++ code, libraries, and tools, along with full standards evolution support with ISO C++.
- Sutter's experimental syntax, Cpp2, is an attempt to be 100% pure C++, integrating increased generality, improved defaults, lesser ceremony, and fewer vulnerabilities, deviating from the previously followed "Dart plan."

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38140833)

- Herb Sutter, a software architect at Microsoft, suggests streamlining the renowned programming language C++, aiming for a tenfold increase in simplicity and fiftyfold improvement in security.
- Sutter recommends a "TypeScript plan" for C++, emphasizing uninterrupted interop compatibility with existing C++ code, libraries, and tools, complete with ISO C++ standards support.
- He introduces an experimental syntax, Cpp2, meant to be purely C++, offering enhanced generality, improved defaults, reduced complexity, and fewer vulnerabilities. This approach differs significantly from previous projects aligning with the "Dart plan."

## [SARS-CoV-2 Alters Mitochondrial Function, Leading to Energy Depletion and Organ Failure: UNC Researchers](https://news.unchealthcare.org/2023/10/researchers-show-sars-cov-2-infection-affects-energy-stores-in-the-body-causing-organ-failure/)

- A team of researchers, including Jonathan C. Schisler, have discovered the impact of SARS-CoV-2 on the body's energy storage, potentially leading to organ failure.
- The study reveals that the virus alters the mitochondria at a genetic level, inhibiting specific genes that utilize oxygen to create cellular energy, causing what they describe as "energy outages" which can lead to cell death and inflammation.
- The findings could pave the way for understanding the body's reaction to the virus and mitigating chronic symptoms related to COVID-19. Future studies will delve into the duration and possible restoration of mitochondrial dysfunction, particularly in long-COVID cases.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38146122)

- A study featuring Jonathan C. Schisler, PhD, of the UNC School of Medicine, elucidates how SARS-CoV-2 infection impacts the body's energy stores, leading to organ failure.
- The research found that SARS-CoV-2 modifies mitochondria genetically, causing "energy outages" in vital organs by blocking specific genes that utilize oxygen to produce cellular energy, thereby preventing the replenishment of the body's energy reserves.
- This discovery is crucial as it aids in understanding chronic COVID symptoms affecting the heart, immune system, and brain neurons. The ongoing focus of research includes the longevity of mitochondrial dysfunction in long-COVID cases and potential restoration methods.

## [xAI Launches Grok, a Hitchhiker’s Guide-Inspired Humorous and Rebellious AI](https://twitter.com/xai/status/1721027348970238035)

- xAI has launched Grok, an artificial intelligence platform inspired by the unique style of the Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy.
- Grok aims to address any question presented to it and even suggests inquiries for users.
- A touch of humor and rebel spirit sets Grok apart from conventional AI systems, adding distinctiveness to its identity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38148396)

- xAI has unveiled Grok, an artificial intelligence (AI) system designed along the lines of the Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy.
- The AI's goal is to address any query and even propose questions, but with a delicate sense of humor and defiance.
- The innovative and entertaining approach of Grok positions xAI at the intersection of technology and entertainment.

## [Four Zero-Day Vulnerabilities Discovered in Microsoft Exchange Permitting RCE and Data Theft](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/microsoft/new-microsoft-exchange-zero-days-allow-rce-data-theft-attacks/)

- Four zero-day vulnerabilities in Microsoft Exchange have been discovered that could be exploited remotely to execute arbitrary code or disclose sensitive data.
- Microsoft was informed of these vulnerabilities by Trend Micro's Zero Day Initiative (ZDI), but per its judgment, deemed them not severe enough to mandate immediate action.
- ZDI has recommended limiting interaction with Exchange applications, implementing multi-factor authentication, and mentioned that some vulnerabilities need prior access to email credentials. Microsoft states it has taken protective measures and will tackle these issues in future updates and products.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38145461)

- Four zero-day vulnerabilities, including remote code execution (RCE) flaws and data validation issues, have been discovered in Microsoft Exchange, which could lead to unauthorized code execution or sensitive data exposure.
- Despite being informed by Trend Micro's Zero Day Initiative (ZDI), Microsoft did not consider these issues severe enough for immediate action. All identified vulnerabilities require authentication for exploitation.
- ZDI recommended limiting interaction with Exchange applications and implementing multi-factor authentication as a mitigation strategy. Meanwhile, Microsoft claims to have taken protective measures and planned to address these vulnerabilities in future updates and products. Some issues have already been resolved or require prior email access.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Computational Solution for Othello Uncovered: Game Can Always Lead to a Draw with Perfect Play, Says Scientist Hiroki Takizawa" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Computational%20Solution%20for%20Othello%20Uncovered%3A%20Game%20Can%20Always%20Lead%20to%20a%20Draw%20with%20Perfect%20Play%2C%20Says%20Scientist%20Hiroki%20Takizawa&subheading=Sunday%2C%20November%205%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
