---
slug: '/2023/11/06'
---

# 2023-11-06

## [Exploring the Technical Issues and High System Requirements of Cities: Skylines 2](https://blog.paavo.me/cities-skylines-2-performance/)

- Cities: Skylines 2, a simulation-based game, has released with numerous problems, including weak performance and gameplay bugs.
- This game possesses high system requirements due to its GPU intensity, coupled with its usage of the Entity Component System implementation and Burst compiler, part of the Unity 2022 engine's DOTS technologies, which is unusual for such games.
- Despite the developers acknowledging and indicating a need for significant time to address them, these issues offer a useful insight into the intricacies of game development.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38153573)

- Cities: Skylines 2 has launched with several performance and gameplay issues largely tied to its use of the Entity Component System (ECS) implementation and Burst compiler, part of the Unity 2022 engine's DOTS technologies.
- The game has high system requirements; it is GPU-intensive for a simulation game and requires an expensive graphics card for 60 FPS gameplay, which has been a point of criticism.
- Beyond performance issues, problems also stem from experimental texturing and excessive detail in character models. Developers have recognized these issues but underscore their resolution requires significant effort.

## [Resource Collection Aims to Boost Developers' Proficiency in DOM Manipulation with Vanilla JavaScript](https://phuoc.ng/collection/html-dom/)

- The web development environment continues to advance with tools like Angular, VueJS, React, Solid and Svelte aiding in managing the Document Object Model (DOM), yet developers still need to interact directly with DOM.
- Recognizing this, a collection of resources has been created to help developers master DOM manipulation using straightforward JavaScript. These resources include numerous strategies for tasks such as updating favicons based on user preference dynamically and calculating a webpage's reading time.
- The resources offer live demonstrations, advice, best practices, and support for a variety of modern browsers - including Internet Explorer.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38162435)

- The web development environment is continually evolving, with modern tools like Angular, VueJS, React, Solid, and Svelte aiming to assist in managing the Document Object Model (DOM). However, developers maintain a level of direct interaction with the DOM.
- A collection of resources has been developed to aid developers in mastering DOM manipulation using vanilla JavaScript, encompassing dynamic favicon updates based on user preferences, webpage reading time calculation, and HTML insertion at a contentEditable element's current position.
- These resources offer live demonstrations, tips, best practices, and support for various modern browsers, including Internet Explorer.

## [Lupus Cerebritis: A Musician's Struggle with Loss and Recovery of Time Perception](https://www.salon.com/2023/11/05/a-brain-injury-removed-my-ability-to-perceive-time-heres-what-its-like-in-a-world-without-it/)

- This account focuses on a musician's battle with lupus cerebritis, a rare form of lupus causing severe brain inflammation that affected her cognition and perception of time.
- The disease severely impacted her musical abilities due to loss of sensation in her arm, impaired memory, and compromised comprehension. It underscored the crucial role of time sense in synchronous musical performances.
- Despite her recovery not resulting in fully restored memory, the musician appreciates the regained ability to perform music. She also discusses scientific research showing that the brain uses multiple sensory inputs and episodic memories to measure time.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38156030)

- The author, a musician, shares her experience with lupus cerebritis, a rare condition causing severe brain inflammation and affecting cognitive abilities, including sensation, memory, and understanding of time.
- Professional string players need precise synchronization for performances, a skill disrupted by her illness. The brain's perception of time, she explains, isn't managed by a singular region but integrates numerous sensory inputs, with episodic memory formation playing a critical role.
- Despite the years-long struggle and not fully regaining her past memory sharpness, the author expresses appreciation for the recovery of her musical skills.

## [Introducing WireHub: A New WireGuard Config Generator and Manager Seeking Early Feedback](https://www.wirehub.org/)

- The developer is working on a project named WireHub, utilizing Django and minimal JavaScript. WireHub is a managed WireGuard config generator that empowers users to invite others to become part of networks and control their configurations/devices.
- WireHub, though still in its beta stage, the creator is actively seeking early feedback from the tech community.
- The unique selling proposition of WireHub lies in its functionality as a hosted and user-friendly WireGuard config manager, enabling easier network connections and config management.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38155544)

- The developer is working on a project named WireHub, utilizing Django and minimal JavaScript.
- WireHub is a hosted WireGuard config generator/manager that enables users to invite others to join networks and manage their own configurations or devices.
- Although WireHub is currently in its beta stage, the individual is seeking early feedback from the community.

## [Intel 80386: The Game-Changing CPU that Dominated the Market and Paved the Way for Modern Computing](https://www.xtof.info/intel80386.html)

- The Intel 80386, also known as the 386, used a flat memory space and provided virtual memory, marking it as a significant innovator in the CPU industry.
- The 386's launch altered Intel's sales strategy, enabling them to become the exclusive supplier of the CPU and dominate the x86 market.
- The 386's Memory Management Unit allowed efficient memory access and modern computing expansion, and its adoption paved the way for advanced developments like Windows and Linux.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38156486)

- The Intel 80386, or 386, was a major tech milestone due to its transformative influence on the PC market, mainly because of its use of a flat memory space and the provision of virtual memory.
- The 386 marked a shift in Intel's sales approach, allowing it to monopolize the CPU supplier market as competitors like IBM and AMD focused on other areas.
- The 386's inclusion of a Memory Management Unit (MMU) revolutionized memory access and paved the way for modern computing. Its adoption led to Intel's domination of the x86 market and the subsequent development of platforms like Windows and Linux.

## [Prossimo Unveils First Stable Release of sudo-rs, A More Secure version of Linux’s sudo Utility, Written in Rust](https://www.memorysafety.org/blog/sudo-first-stable-release/)

- Software company Prossimo has launched the first stable release of sudo-rs, a redrafted version of the common Linux sudo utility, written in the Rust programming language.
- The sudo-rs project concentrates on elevating the security of sudo, aiming to mitigate memory-management-related bugs, coupled with a comprehensive test suite for bug detection.
- The new sudo-rs is incorporated into the Wolfi Linux OS, with an exterior security audit slated for September 2023. The NLnet Foundation and Amazon Web Services financially backed the project.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38161016)

- Prossimo, a software company, has rolled out the first stable version of sudo-rs, a revised model of the broadly used Linux sudo tool, implemented in Rust, a programming language.
- The sudo-rs project aims to enhance sudo's security, addressing its numerous memory-management related bugs through simplification and a comprehensive test suite that found bugs in the original sudo.
- sudo-rs is now part of the Wolfi Linux OS and will undergo an external security review in September 2023. The NLnet Foundation and Amazon Web Services financially backed the project.

## [Introducing Ladder: A New Open-Source and Customizable Alternative to 12ft.io and 1ft.io](https://github.com/kubero-dev/ladder)

- The author has developed an open-source alternative to some services they found lacking in functionality.
- The alternative solution is written in Golang, a statically-typed compiled language originally developed at Google.
- This new software is fully customizable, allowing users to tailor its behavior to their specific needs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38161452)

- The author has created an open-source alternative to certain services due to dissatisfaction with their functionality.
- The alternative software was developed using Golang, a statically typed, compiled programming language.
- This new alternative is fully customizable, allowing users to modify it to fit their specific needs.

## [FFmpeg Enhances Video Transcoding with Introduction of Multithreaded Pipelines](https://twitter.com/FFmpeg/status/1721275669336707152)

- FFmpeg, a significant video transcoder globally, has announced enhancements to its services, notably multithreaded transcoding pipelines.
- The update was officially announced on November 5, 2023.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38160703)

- FFmpeg, a leading video transcoder globally, is enhancing its features by introducing multithreaded transcoding pipelines.
- This upgrade, officially announced on November 5, 2023, aims to improve its service quality.
- A multithreaded transcoding pipeline allows the software to perform multiple transcodings simultaneously, increasing efficiency.

## [Insightful Beginner's Guide to the GNU Debugger Command Line Interface](https://beej.us/guide/bggdb/)

- "Beej's Quick Guide to GDB" is a beginner-friendly guide that provides a detailed introduction to the GNU Debugger (gdb), a tool used for debugging programs through the terminal command line.
- The guide covers various aspects of gdb usage, including starting the debugger, managing breakpoints, monitoring variables, handling core dumps, and more. It is particularly useful for coders who choose not to use an Integrated Development Environment (IDE).
- It also equips users with knowledge of creating a personalized front-end interface using gdb's "machine interface interpreter", GDB/MI, and guidance on window layouts management in text user interface (TUI) mode. This guide is licensed under a Creative Commons license.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38155541)

- "Beej's Quick Guide to GDB" is a beginner-friendly instruction manual for using the GNU Debugger (gdb) through the terminal command line, aimed at those who forego an Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for programming.
- The guide provides an in-depth overview of gdb, encapsulating various commands like initiating the debugger, configuring breakpoints, examining variables, and handling core dumps.
- It additionally elucidates how to generate a personalized front-end interface using gdb's "machine interface interpreter", GDB/MI, and the management of window layouts in text user interface (TUI) mode.

## [Mozilla Transitioning Firefox Development from Mercurial to Git: A Two-Phase Approach](https://groups.google.com/a/mozilla.org/g/firefox-dev/c/QnfydsDj48o/m/8WadV0_dBQAJ)

- Mozilla has disclosed plans to shift the development of Firefox from Mercurial to Git, prompted by the struggles in managing both tools.
- Although the repository will be moved to GitHub, Mozilla will continue its current contribution process and will not accept Pull Requests at this time.
- The transition will be achieved in two stages: the first involves changes primarily affecting developers, and the second will transfer the back-end infrastructure from Mercurial to Git. The initiation of the process will follow a planning period of at least six months.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38160161)

- Mozilla has decided to change Firefox's development process from Mercurial to Git due to the challenges of maintaining both systems.
- Despite shifting the repository to GitHub, Mozilla plans to keep its current contribution workflow and will not entertain Pull Requests for now.
- The transition will happen in two stages: initially focusing on changes that impact developers, and later migrating the backend infrastructure. The process, set to kick off after a minimum six-month planning period, signifies a substantial shift in Mozilla's approach to code management.

## [Chez Scheme to Merge Branches: Prepares for v10.0 Release](https://groups.google.com/g/chez-scheme/c/D7g6mIcYLNU)

- Matthew Flatt and Chez Scheme's maintainers plan to merge Chez Scheme's different versions to streamline its code towards a release of v10.0.
- Post-merge, the code in racket/ChezScheme will be almost identical to the main branch at cisco/ChezScheme, with all changes made cautiously to uphold Chez Scheme's essence and quality.
- Contrary to current practice, the portable bytecode (pb) boot files will no longer refer to a Git submodule but will be incorporated directly into the cisco/ChezScheme repository.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38158529)

- Matthew Flatt and the Chez Scheme maintainers plan to merge the existing branches of Chez Scheme found on two GitHub links, aiming to transition the code in cisco/ChezScheme to v9.9.9-pre-release.20 and progress towards a v10.0 release.
- Post-merge, the content of the racket/ChezScheme branch will mirror the main branch at cisco/ChezScheme closely, with changes carefully checked to maintain Chez Scheme's character and quality.
- Notably, the merged cisco/ChezScheme will forgo referencing a Git submodule for portable bytecode (pb) boot files, incorporating them into the cisco/ChezScheme repository instead.

## [New Tutorial Explains How to Host a Website on ESP32](https://esp.khalsalabs.com)

- The webpage, created on November 1st, 2023, is situated on ESP32, a series of low-cost, low-power system-on-a-chip microcontrollers.
- It offers a tutorial on how to host a website on ESP32, providing valuable information to individuals interested in utilizing this system for their sites.
- The establishment of this tutorial webpage demonstrates a practical application of ESP32, revealing its potential for hosting websites.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38154045)

- The webpage, established on November 1st, 2023, is hosted on ESP32, a series of low-cost, low-power system on a chip microcontrollers with integrated Wi-Fi and dual-mode Bluetooth.
- This site features a tutorial demonstrating how to host a website on an ESP32, offering users a guide to leveraging this technology.
- It offers hands-on tech learning opportunities for those seeking to understand web hosting on low-power microcontroller systems like the ESP32.

## [milliFORTH: Claimed the Smallest Real Programming Language](https://github.com/fuzzballcat/milliForth)

- milliFORTH, a FORTH programming language, is the smallest real programming language to date, taking up only 422 bytes, making it small enough to fit in a 512-byte boot sector.
- Although sectorFORTH previously achieved this, milliFORTH is even smaller, out-sizing sectorLISP2 by 14 bytes. Despite its minimalistic nature, it doesn't compromise programming efficiency.
- Modifications in milliFORTH include the removal of 'tib', trimmed error handling, a non-functional delete key, an assembled binary of sector.asm that's compatible with emulators, and a utility for checking binary size.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38158309)

- MilliFORTH, being only 422 bytes in size, claims to be the smallest existing real programming language, which is even small enough to fit within a 512-byte boot sector.
- FORTH, the language milliFORTH is based on, is a minimalist language containing just a few words for functionality yet managing to maintain programming efficiency.
- The new milliFORTH has some modifications compared to its predecessor, sectorFORTH, including an absence of tib, limited error handling, and a non-operating delete key. It also includes an assembled binary of sector.asm and a utility to show the binary size.

## [Fermented Grain Attracts and Intoxicates Grizzly Bears Leading to Train Fatalities in Montana](https://cowboystatedaily.com/2023/11/04/63-grizzlies-some-drunk-on-fermented-grain-killed-by-trains-in-montana/)

- A significant number of grizzly bears have perished since the 1980s along a railway line close to Glacier National Park, Montana, primarily caused by intoxication from fermented grain spillage from the railcars.
- The blend of spilled grain and moisture initiates fermentation, attracting the bears, with already three reported deaths in 2021 due to train hits.
- Although mitigations like reducing grain quantity in railcars and setting noise triggers in known "kill zones" are proposed, limited action has been taken to resolve this issue so far.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38155324)

- Dozens of grizzly bears have tragically died since the 1980s near Glacier National Park in Montana due to intoxication from fermented grain leaked from railcars.
- So far in 2021, three bears have died after being hit by trains, suggesting the issue persists.
- Possible solutions include cutting down the amount of grain in railcars and deploying noise triggers in recognized "kill zones", but little action has been taken to mitigate the death rate.

## [Using RTL-SDR Dongle to Receive NRSC-5 Digital Radio Stations: A Comprehensive Guide](https://github.com/theori-io/nrsc5)

- The program nrsc5 utilizes an RTL-SDR dongle to receive NRSC-5 digital radio stations and offers both a command-line interface and an API.
- The user is required to compile the program with the guide given, which includes explicit instructions for various system configurations, as well as sample file testing and troubleshooting.
- Additional commands are provided for audio program transitioning and exiting. For smooth operation on Windows, users are advised to make adjustments using Zadig on the USB driver.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38157466)

- The nrsc5 is a program that utilizes an RTL-SDR dongle to receive NRSC-5 digital radio stations, providing a command-line interface and an API for the development of other applications.
- The program comes with comprehensive instructions for building it on various systems like Ubuntu, Debian, Raspbian, and Windows using different build options, along with advice for troubleshooting and testing with a sample capture file.
- Users are advised to use Zadig to prevent errors by altering the USB driver, particularly for Windows systems, and provided with keyboard commands for audio program switching, quitting, and command-line options.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Exploring the Technical Issues and High System Requirements of Cities: Skylines 2" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Exploring%20the%20Technical%20Issues%20and%20High%20System%20Requirements%20of%20Cities%3A%20Skylines%202&subheading=Monday%2C%20November%206%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
