---
slug: '/2023/11/08'
---

# 2023-11-08

## [Improving Banks' Operational Efficiency Through Technology: An Analysis of Current Challenges and Potential Improvements](https://www.bitsaboutmoney.com/archive/seeing-like-a-bank/)

- Patrick McKenzie criticizes banks for their operational inefficiencies due to a disorganized structure and ineffective communication between subsystems, leading to problems like account closures and credit card fraud.
- He points out how the tiered customer service system, intended to save banks' time and resources, often exacerbate customer frustration and inefficiencies. Additionally, he calls out certain legal obligations, like non-disclosed Suspicious Activity Reports, that can lead to abrupt account shutdowns and add confusion for customers.
- McKenzie suggests technological improvements could enhance banking operations and customer service, but acknowledges the time needed for its system-wide adoption. He also asks for a reassessment of some regulations generating unnecessary harm to customers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38180477)

- Patrick McKenzie scrutinizes banks for operational inefficiencies resulting from poor communication and organization within subsystems, leading to issues like account closures and credit card fraud.
- He points towards banks' tiered customer service structure and certain confusing legal obligations such as non-disclosed Suspicious Activity Reports as part of the problem.
- McKenzie believes improved technology could enhance banks' operational competence and customer experiences, but acknowledges implementation throughout the financial system might be gradual. He also emphasizes the need to reconsider specific regulations that inflict unnecessary harm and confusion on customers.

## [Enhancements in Northlight Technology to Boost Gaming Experience in Alan Wake 2](https://www.remedygames.com/article/how-northlight-makes-alan-wake-2-shine)

- The Northlight development team for Alan Wake 2 has introduced several technology improvements like a new data-oriented game object model for better memory efficiency and faster performance, and a Voxel-Based Character Control for improved navigation.
- Developers have adopted Luau, a language derived from Lua by Roblox, eliminating about 80,000 lines of superfluous code. They also introduced a new wind system for authentic physics effects and a Scattering tool for large-scale environment designs.
- The sequel features a new GPU-driven rendering pipeline, HDR support, and enhanced transparency rendering and VFX tools for better artistic flexibility. Also, it includes support for ray-traced direct lighting.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38180846)

- The Northlight development team for Alan Wake 2 has made several technological improvements, such as a memory-efficient data-oriented game object model and a Voxel-Based Character Control for a smoother navigation experience.
- A new wind system for realistic physics effects was introduced, along with a Scattering tool for large-scale environment design. Also, the proprietary scripting language was replaced with Luau (derived from Lua by Roblox), reducing around 80,000 lines of unnecessary code.
- The sequel features a fresh GPU-driven rendering pipeline for richer game world details, improved transparency rendering and VFX tools. It also supports HDR and ray-traced direct lighting, granting artists more creative flexibility.

## [ESA's Euclid Space Mission Unveils First Detailed Color Images of the Cosmos, Preps for Universe's Largest 3D Map](https://www.esa.int/Science_Exploration/Space_Science/Euclid/Euclid_s_first_images_the_dazzling_edge_of_darkness)

- ESA's Euclid mission has unveiled its first full-colour cosmological images, exhibiting unparalleled clarity over a large sky portion.
- The Euclid telescope is set to generate the most comprehensive 3D Universe map and scrutinize dark matter and dark energy, which constitute 95% of our cosmos.
- Euclid's initial images demonstrate its unique ability to produce sharp visual and infrared images across extensive sky sections in one go. The mission epitomizes European excellence and global collaboration.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38176750)

- The European Space Agency's (ESA's) Euclid space mission has disclosed its first full-colour images of the cosmos with remarkable clarity over a substantial part of the sky.
- The Euclid telescope, designed to generate the most comprehensive 3D map of the Universe, will delve into investigating dark matter and dark energy that constitute 95% of our cosmos.
- Over the next six years, Euclid will scrutinise billions of galaxies up to 10 billion light-years away, demonstrating its unique ability to deliver sharp visible and infrared images across a large sky portion in a single session.

## [Interactive Game Tests Knowledge of Antidepressants and Tolkien Characters](https://antidepressantsortolkien.vercel.app/)

- The game challenges players to distinguish whether a given word is an antidepressant medication or a character from J.R.R. Tolkien's works.
- It underscores an intersection of literature and pharmaceutical nomenclature, giving players a unique learning experience.
- The game's peculiar concept stands out, making it an interesting topic for both Tolkien enthusiasts and those intrigued by pharmaceutical terms.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38186190)

- The article discusses an interesting game centered around the challenge of distinguishing between names of antidepressant medications and characters from J.R.R. Tolkien's works.
- It serves as a quirky yet compelling examination of both pop culture and pharmaceutical terminologies.
- It draws an unexpected parallel between two vastly different realms: literary fantasy and medical science.

## [Optimizing Go Applications in Containers: The Role of Linux Scheduler and CPU Limits](https://www.riverphillips.dev/blog/go-cfs/)

- The blog post highlights the necessity of setting CPU limits in container orchestrators when running applications to avoid utilizing all the CPU power of the host.
- In-depth information about the Go Garbage Collector process, the role of the Linux Scheduler, and the importance of controlling CPU threads through the GOMAXPROCS environment variable is provided.
- Uber has introduced the 'automaxprocs' library, which automatically calculates the GOMAXPROCS value from the container's cgroups, simplifying its setup while running Go in containerized applications.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38181346)

- The Go developer in the blog stresses the importance of setting CPU limits in container orchestrators to avoid high CPU consumption on the host, since Go runtime tends to use all available CPU power, potentially causing high latency.
- The author advises controlling the number of CPU threads the Go runtime can create by using the GOMAXPROCS environment variable, which aligns with the CPU quota.
- Uber has created the 'automaxprocs' library that computes this environment variable value from the container's cgroups automatically, catering to the necessity of sensible GOMAXPROCS assignment when running Go in containerized applications.

## [Introducing Gleam: A Concurrent, User-friendly Programming Language on Erlang Runtime](https://gleam.run/)

- Gleam is a robust program based on the Erlang runtime, featuring a modern syntax and a powerful type system, equipped to handle workloads of any size with its concurrency system and fast immutable data structures.
- The program supports multi-core operations, uses a concurrent garbage collector, and offers its own compiler, build tool, formatter, editor integrations, and package manager. It is interoperable with packages from other BEAM languages like Erlang and Elixir.
- Beyond core features, Gleam compiles to JavaScript, generates TypeScript definitions for efficient external interactions and prioritizes user-friendly error messages, aiming for multicultural inclusivity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38183454)

- Gleam is a robust program based on the Erlang runtime, featuring a modern syntax and a powerful type system, capable of handling workloads of any size due to its concurrency system and fast immutable data structures.
- It comes with its own compiler, build tool, formatter, editor integrations, and package manager, and can interact with packages from other BEAM languages like Erlang and Elixir. It also compiles to JavaScript and generates TypeScript definitions for efficient external interactions.
- User-friendly error messages and multicultural inclusivity are high-priority aspects of Gleam, as it aims to be accessible and efficient for diverse user groups.

## [Apple's 'Scary Fast' Event, Shot on iPhone 15 Pro Max, Showcases Professional Camera Capabilities](https://prolost.com/blog/scarybts)

- Apple used its iPhone 15 Pro Max to film the entire "Scary Fast" event in October, which unveiled new Macs with M3 silicon, demonstrating its professional video recording capability.
- Apple's Pro Workflows Group encourages the professional use of Apple devices and showcased the quality by filming an action short using specialized apps and techniques.
- The "Shot on iPhone" campaign aims to inspire creativity and shows that the decision to utilize these tools aligns with an individual's intentions and needs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38182869)

- Apple utilized its iPhone 15 Pro Max to film the entire "Scary Fast" event in October, demonstrating the phone's professional-level camera capabilities. The event introduced new Macs with M3 silicon.
- In addition to shooting the event, Apple also recorded an action short using various tools like the Blackmagic Camera App and special shutter techniques to achieve high-quality results.
- The "Shot on iPhone" campaign, backed by the Apple Pro Workflows Group, aims to inspire users to leverage their iPhones for creative endeavors, highlighting that the choice to use such tools is dependent on a person's creative intentions and requirements.

## [GodotCon 2023: Deep Dive into Future of Rendering, Indie Game Development and more](https://media.ccc.de/c/godotcon2023)

- The text provides an extensive catalogue of discussions and podcast feeds from the GodotCon 2023, focusing on future rendering in Godot, running an independent game development studio, and technical aspects of game development in Godot.
- Recordings from the conference are available in various formats like mp4 and webm, catering to a wide array of preferences.
- Highlighted talks include 'From watercolors to mechs: Stylized rendering and asset pipelines in Godot' and 'Super-charging content production with Godot addons', showcasing the diversity of topics discussed.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38176113)

- The text provides a comprehensive overview of podcast feeds and talks from GodotCon 2023, a convention dedicated to the Godot game engine.
- Topics discussed range from the prospective developments in Godot's rendering, to the dynamics of operating an independent game development studio, and technical discussions on game development within Godot.
- Various recorded discussions including 'From watercolors to mechs: Stylized rendering and asset pipelines in Godot' and 'Super-charging content production with Godot addons' are accessible in formats such as mp4 and webm.

## [Maine 2023 Election Ballot to Include Proposal for Full Print of Original State Constitution](https://www.mitsc.org/news/maine-2023-election-ballot-question-6-fact-sheet)

- The state of Maine proposes to amend its Constitution through a legislative proposal in the 2023 Election Ballot, ensuring that all its provisions appear in official printed copies created by the Secretary of State.
- A 'yes' vote would reinstate the original sections of the document omitted due to an 1876 amendment, such as Maine's treaty obligations to the Wabanaki people.
- The proposal intends not to alter existing commitments to the Wabanaki Nations, but to give citizens comprehensive access to the Constitution's original language.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38176592)

- Maine will feature a legislative proposal (Question #6) on its 2023 Election Ballot to amend the state Constitution, ensuring all provisions be included in official printed copies prepared by the Secretary of State.
- Voting "yes" would restore original sections omitted in printed copies due to an 1876 amendment, including Maine's treaty obligations to the Wabanaki people. These clauses have remained in effect despite their printed absence.
- The proposal seeks to enhance citizens' access to the complete original language of the Constitution, without altering Maine's existing "duties and obligations" towards the Wabanaki Nations.

## [eIDAS 2.0's Article 45: A Potential Setback for Web Security Standards in the EU](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2023/11/article-45-will-roll-back-web-security-12-years)

- The European Union (EU) is discussing eIDAS 2.0, a new regulation that might permit governments to work with certificate authorities in monitoring encrypted traffic.
- This regulation could impact certain certificate authorities' modern security requirements without the approval of an EU member government, raising potential privacy issues.
- Specifically, Article 45 of this regulation is causing particular concern, as it may decrease web browser security standards for European internet users. The formal text is expected to be finalized on November 8.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38181114)

- The European Union is planning to ratify a new regulation, eIDAS 2.0, allowing governments to cooperate with certificate authorities to potentially monitor encrypted traffic.
- The regulation could undermine contemporary security prerequisites on certificate authorities without the consent of an EU member government.
- Article 45 included in the regulation is causing privacy worries, mainly for European internet users, as it could lead to a decrease in web browser security standards. The final text of the regulation will be confirmed on November 8.

## [Decoding the Complexity of Compiler Writing with x86-64 Assembly Code](http://sebmestre.blogspot.com/2023/11/en-writing-compiler-is-surprisingly.html)

- The blog post simplifies the process of writing a compiler, targeting the translation of high-level language into x86-64 machine code, with a focus on integer literals, variables, negation, and addition.
- The author demonstrates how to represent and compile integer literals, variables, compile negations utilizing different x86-64 instructions, and the importance of register usage in this process.
- Addition commands are compiled using the stack and a simple counter to prevent slot reuse, culminating in the compilation of arithmetic expressions. Future posts plan to guide on compiling control flow constructs and function calls and pointers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38182461)

- The blog post author describes that writing a compiler, while initially seeming complex, can be simplistically achieved over a few weekends with certain assumptions.
- Conceptual emphasis is given on translating the high-level language to x86-64 machine code using variables, negation, and addition which are further translated to x86-64 assembly code via a pre-existing assembler.
- Using x86-64 instructions, the post provides examples on compiling integer literals, variables, negations and addition, concluding with the compilation of arithmetic expressions. Future posts promise to tackle compiling control flow constructs and function calls.

## [Introducing SectorC: World's Smallest C Compiler in x86 Machine's Boot Sector](https://github.com/xorvoid/sectorc)

- SectorC, a C compiler written in x86-16 assembly, potentially holds the title for being the smallest C compiler due to its capability to fit within the boot sector of an x86 machine.
- Supporting a substantial subset of C language, SectorC enables the crafting of complex programs, such as those involving animation of a moving sine-wave, despite its compact size.
- Although suggested to have a niche use-case, SectorC can be a helpful tool for individuals keen on understanding x86-16 bios functions and machine model without needing substantial knowledge of x86 assembly.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38176062)

- SectorC is a C compiler, said to be one of the smallest ever developed, written in x86-16 assembly. The compiler is unique as it can fit within the boot sector of an x86 machine.
- Despite its compact size, SectorC supports a notable subset of the C language, including functions, if statements, while statements, and other features. This allows for the creation of complex programs like a moving sine-wave animation.
- It seems developed with a focus on people who want to understand x86-16 bios functions and the machine model, providing them a bridge to explore without needing to learn extensive x86 assembly.

## [Advancing Async Rust: A Comprehensive Four-Year Development Plan](https://without.boats/blog/a-four-year-plan/)

- The author advocates for new features in async Rust, such as AsyncIterator, async generators, and "Return Type Notation", along with treating async closures as closures returning 'impl Future'.
- They touch upon complex concepts such as object-safe coroutine methods and async destructors, and discuss the integration of advanced types like Immoveable, Unforgettable, and Undroppable.
- The author critiques the Rust project's decision-making and communication process, urging for more understanding and open dialogue between the project team and the community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38178592)

- The author articulates future enhancements for asynchronous Rust programming, focusing on the introduction of new features including AsyncIterator, async generators and a novel "Return Type Notation".
- The post suggests treating asynchronous closures as closures returning an 'impl Future', and delves into intricate concepts like object-safe coroutine methods and asynchronous destructors.
- The author critiques the decision-making and communication practices of the Rust project and appeals for better comprehension and communication between the project developers and the community.

## [Mass Resignation at The Escapist Following Termination of Editor-in-Chief Nick Calandra](https://www.gamesindustry.biz/the-escapist-staff-resign-following-termination-of-editor-in-chief-nick-calandra)

- The Escapist, a gaming website, has experienced a wave of resignations, including Ben "Yahtzee" Croshaw from Zero Punctuation, following the termination of the editor-in-chief, Nick Calandra.
- Calandra was reportedly dismissed for "not meeting goals" by the Gamurs Group, which acquired The Escapist last year, citing unclear objectives and a lack of understanding of the platform's readership as ongoing issues.
- Other notable departures include contributors Amy Campbell, Parkes Harman, Darren Mooney, Matt Laughlin, and JM8 from Design Delve, suggesting a staff-wide unity and response to Calandra's termination.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38177250)

- Several staff members from The Escapist, including Ben "Yahtzee" Croshaw, known from Zero Punctuation, resigned following the firing of the site's editor-in-chief, Nick Calandra.
- The Gamurs Group, who bought The Escapist last year, reportedly terminated Calandra for "not achieving goals," although he pointed to goal ambiguity and lack of understanding of their audience as ongoing issues.
- This mass resignation is an act of solidarity with Calandra, and is a response to his termination with notable exits including Amy Campbell, Parkes Harman, Darren Mooney, Matt Laughlin, and Design Delve's JM8.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Improving Banks' Operational Efficiency Through Technology: An Analysis of Current Challenges and Potential Improvements" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Improving%20Banks'%20Operational%20Efficiency%20Through%20Technology%3A%20An%20Analysis%20of%20Current%20Challenges%20and%20Potential%20Improvements&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20November%208%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
