---
slug: '/2023/11/10'
---

# 2023-11-10

## [What I Learned from Being Acquired by Google: Lessons for Startup Founders](https://shreyans.org/google)

- The author shares their firsthand experience of their startup being acquired by Google and the valuable access and opportunities it provided.
- They emphasize the importance of adapting to Google's way of doing things and surrounding oneself with the right people and goals.
- The author discusses the impact of technical and process debt, as well as the need to prioritize solving important problems. They also mention the mixed results of the acquisition and their decision to leave Google and start their own companies.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38207024)

- The author shares their firsthand experience of their startup being acquired by Google and the lessons they learned during their time at the company.
- They discuss the access and opportunities available at Google, as well as the importance of adapting to Google's way of doing things and aligning goals with the company.
- The author emphasizes the impact of technical and process debt, the importance of surrounding yourself with the right people, and the need to focus on solving important problems. They also mention the mixed results of the acquisition and their decision to leave Google and start their own companies.

## [Monaspace: An Innovative Font Superfamily Designed for Code](https://monaspace.githubnext.com/)

- Monaspace is a new font superfamily designed specifically for code, offering five fonts with three variable axes for customizable code display.
- Texture Healing is a standout feature that balances the density of monospaced type, improving readability.
- Monaspace includes code ligatures for programming languages, enhancing the coding experience aesthetically.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38210574)

- Monaspace is a unique font family designed specifically for code, offering five different fonts with customizable options.
- The font includes Texture Healing, which improves the visual balance and readability of monospaced type.
- Monaspace also features code ligatures for various programming languages, enhancing the coding experience.

## [You Have a Right to Know: Investigating Health Insurers Denying Claims and Withholding Explanations](https://www.propublica.org/article/your-right-to-know-why-health-insurer-denied-claim)

- ProPublica investigated the practice of health insurers denying claims and failing to provide patients with records explaining the reasons for denial, as required by federal regulations.
- Some insurers only provided the records after ProPublica intervened, prompting the publication of a guide on how to request claim files and the sharing of resources with healthcare providers and advocates.
- ProPublica found that many patients faced challenges such as missed deadlines and wrongful requirements for subpoenas, prompting five insurance companies to update their policies in response.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38207866)

- ProPublica investigated health insurers denying claims and failing to provide patients with records explaining the denials, in violation of federal regulations.
- Some insurers only provided the records after ProPublica intervened, prompting them to publish a guide on how to request claim files and share resources with healthcare providers and advocates.
- ProPublica raised the issue with five insurance companies, who acknowledged their obligation to provide the requested information and updated their policies in response.

## [Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak hospitalized after suffering minor stroke](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-67366306)

- Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak, known as Woz, suffered a minor stroke while at a conference in Mexico City.
- Wozniak, 73, was taken to the hospital after fainting at the event.
- Wozniak has been a vocal advocate for regulating artificial intelligence (AI) due to concerns about misuse, but his representatives have not yet commented on the incident.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38212992)

- Steve Wozniak, co-founder of Apple, has experienced a minor stroke while attending a conference in Mexico City and was taken to the hospital.
- Wozniak, who is known for inventing the first Apple computer and co-founding the company with Steve Jobs, has been an advocate for the regulation of artificial intelligence (AI) to prevent misuse.
- No official comment has been made by Wozniak's representatives regarding the incident.

## [Coding with Voice Control: Exploring the Potential of Cursorless Plugin](https://xeiaso.net/notes/cursorless-alien-magic/)

- The article highlights the author's experience with Cursorless, a voice-controlled code editing plugin.
- Cursorless utilizes anchors and color-coded hats to identify and manipulate specific code elements.
- The author explores the customization options available in Cursorless and experiments with redefining syntax in Go programming using Talon bindings. They express interest in comparing Talon with GitHub Copilot's voice beta for voice coding.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38214915)

- Cursorless is a plugin that enables code editing through voice control, using anchors and color-coded hats to identify code elements for actions like selection or deletion.
- The article discusses the potential of Cursorless, including the ability to create custom commands and its use in redefining syntax in Go programming using Talon bindings.
- The author expresses curiosity about comparing Talon with GitHub Copilot's voice beta for voice coding.

## [Servo Receives Grant to Enhance Web Browser Engine Features](https://servo.org/blog/2023/11/06/nlgrant-announcement/)

- Servo, a web browser engine, has received a grant from the NLnet Foundation to improve its features.
- The grant will focus on completing float support, supporting more languages in inline layout, and adding initial support for tables.
- Servo has already achieved an 82.2% pass rate in implementing floats and is working on enhancing support for non-Latin alphabet languages. The ultimate goal is to render tables correctly on Wikipedia.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38204733)

- Servo, a web browser engine, has been awarded a grant from the NLnet Foundation to enhance its features.
- The grant will be used to complete float support, support more languages in inline layout, and add initial support for tables.
- Servo has already made progress in implementing floats, with a pass rate of 82.2%, and is also working on improving support for displaying content in non-Latin alphabet languages.

## [Privacy Concerns Arise as Microsoft's New Outlook Transmits Users' IMAP Credentials](https://www-heise-de.translate.goog/news/Microsoft-krallt-sich-Zugangsdaten-Achtung-vorm-neuen-Outlook-9357691.html?_x_tr_sl=de&_x_tr_tl=en&_x_tr_hl=de)

- Microsoft's upcoming free version of Outlook, meant to replace the Mail program in Windows, has raised concerns about the transmission of users' IMAP and SMTP access data to Microsoft servers.
- This transmission allows Microsoft to potentially read and analyze users' emails, which has sparked questions about their intentions.
- Despite offering unique features not found in Gmail and IMAP, warnings have been issued advising users to carefully consider whether to use the new Outlook.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38212453)

- Microsoft's upcoming free version of Outlook, set to replace the Mail program in Windows, has raised concerns over the transmission of users' IMAP and SMTP access data to Microsoft servers.
- This data transmission gives Microsoft the ability to read and analyze users' emails, prompting questions about their intentions and sparking warnings about using the new Outlook without careful consideration.
- Despite offering unique features compared to Gmail and IMAP, the issue of data transmission has created unease among users.

## [Apollo Astronaut Frank Borman Dies at 95](https://www.washingtonpost.com/obituaries/2023/11/09/frank-borman-astronaut-eastern-dead/)

- Frank Borman, an accomplished NASA astronaut and former CEO of Eastern Air Lines, has passed away at 95.
- Borman played a pivotal role in demonstrating the feasibility of long-duration space flights during the Apollo 8 mission.
- He and his crewmates achieved a significant milestone by becoming the first humans to orbit the moon and leave Earth's gravitational field.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38212749)

- Frank Borman, a NASA astronaut and former CEO of Eastern Air Lines, has died at the age of 95.
- Borman played a vital role in demonstrating the feasibility of long-duration space flights during the historic Apollo 8 mission.
- He and his crew were the first to travel beyond Earth's gravitational field and orbit the moon.

## [Cars Allowed to Harvest Texts and Call Logs without Authorization, Rules Court](https://www.theregister.com/2023/11/09/car_text_harvesting/)

- Washington appeals court dismisses five class-action lawsuits against car manufacturers, including Honda, Toyota, Volkswagen, and General Motors, regarding storing text messages and call logs from connected smartphones.
- The court ruled that the claims did not meet the statutory injury requirements of the Washington Privacy Act, stating that the privacy violation is considered potential rather than actual.
- Car manufacturers are now allowed to intercept, record, download, store, and transmit text messages and call logs without authorization. Further appeals to the Supreme Court are possible.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38207744)

- A Washington appeals court has ruled that car manufacturers did not break privacy laws by storing text messages and call logs from connected smartphones.
- The court dismissed five class-action lawsuits, stating that the claims did not meet the requirements of the Washington Privacy Act.
- This allows cars to intercept and store text messages and call logs without authorization, as the privacy violation is considered potential rather than actual. Further appeals to the Supreme Court are possible.

## [Benchmarking GPT-4 Turbo: Insights into its Performance and Potential Limitations](https://blog.mentat.ai/benchmarking-gpt-4-turbo-a-cautionary-tale)

- Benchmarking results reveal that GPT-4 Turbo, a code editing model, solves slightly fewer tasks compared to its predecessor GPT-4, potentially due to unclear instructions.
- GPT-4 appears to have memorized the training tasks more effectively, while GPT-4 Turbo seems to have lost some of this memorization capability.
- Additional benchmarks conducted without showing the models the instructions demonstrate that GPT-4 has a higher level of exercises memorized than GPT-4 Turbo.
- The article highlights the importance of developing better benchmarks and improving the evaluation process to accurately assess the performance of different models in the future.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38204430)

- Benchmarking results of GPT-4 Turbo, a code editing model, were compared to its predecessor GPT-4.
- GPT-4 Turbo solves slightly fewer tasks on the first attempt, potentially due to unclear instructions.
- GPT-4 had more exercises memorized compared to GPT-4 Turbo, suggesting a difference in memorization capability.

## [Typing Fast: The Key is Latency, Not Throughput](https://two-wrongs.com/typing-fast-is-about-latency-not-throughput)

- The article debunks the misconception that typing speed above 80 words per minute is not important for computer work.
- The author argues that it's not the number of words typed per minute, but the delay between typing each word that matters.
- Faster typing enables quicker revisions, sentence structuring, and coding, leading to improved productivity and thought flow.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38213158)

- This article debunks the misconception that typing speed above 80 words per minute is not important for computer work.
- The author argues that it is not just about the number of words typed per minute, but also the delay between typing each word.
- Faster typing enables quicker revisions and organization of sentences or code, leading to improved productivity and thought flow.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="What I Learned from Being Acquired by Google: Lessons for Startup Founders" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=What%20I%20Learned%20from%20Being%20Acquired%20by%20Google%3A%20Lessons%20for%20Startup%20Founders&subheading=Friday%2C%20November%2010%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
