---
slug: '/2023/11/20'
---

# 2023-11-20

## [Satya Nadella reaffirms commitment to OpenAI partnership, expresses confidence in product roadmap](https://twitter.com/satyanadella/status/1726509045803336122)

- Microsoft CEO, Satya Nadella, reaffirms the company's strong commitment to its partnership with OpenAI.
- Nadella expresses confidence in OpenAI's product roadmap and their ability to drive innovation.
- Microsoft remains dedicated to supporting their customers and partners, and Nadella looks forward to getting to know Emmett, whose identity is not revealed in the text.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38344196)

- Microsoft's hiring of key figures from OpenAI has raised concerns about prioritizing profit over ethics and the independence of OpenAI.
- Debates revolve around Microsoft's dominance, criticisms of their products, and the broader socio-economic implications.
- The motivations behind the acquisition and the potential impact on OpenAI's technology and resources are subjects of discussion.

## [StyleTTS2: Achieving Human-Like Text-to-Speech Synthesis with Style Diffusion and Adversarial Training](https://github.com/yl4579/StyleTTS2)

- StyleTTS 2 is a text-to-speech model that uses style diffusion and adversarial training with large speech language models (SLMs) to achieve realistic and human-like TTS synthesis.
- The model can generate the appropriate style for the text without reference speech, surpassing human recordings on single-speaker datasets and matching human recordings on multispeaker datasets.
- It also outperforms previous models for zero-shot speaker adaptation, and the paper provides guidelines for training and inference, along with downloadable pretrained models.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38335255)

- Users engage in a conversation about StyleTTS2, an open-source text-to-speech system, discussing its performance, limitations, and potential applications.
- Latency issues, training models for natural conversation, and the use of other tools and technologies with StyleTTS2 are also explored.
- The conversation delves into ethical considerations of TTS technology, its impact on industries like voice acting, hardware requirements, integration with Android, and licensing restrictions.

## [Emmett Shear named interim OpenAI CEO as Altman departs](https://www.theverge.com/2023/11/20/23967515/sam-altman-openai-board-fired-new-ceo)

- Sam Altman, former CEO of OpenAI, will not be rejoining the company.
- Emmett Shear, co-founder and former CEO of Twitch, has been appointed as interim CEO.
- Altman and OpenAI co-founder Greg Brockman are joining Microsoft to head a new advanced AI research team.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38342643)

- The discussion on OpenAI includes topics such as leadership changes, employee departures, and concerns about AI development and safety.
- Opinions vary on the importance of loyalty, trust, and government regulation.
- The influence of Twitter, Microsoft's involvement, and potential competition in the AI industry are also discussed.

## [Deep Learning Course: PyTorch Framework, University of Geneva](https://fleuret.org/dlc/)

- The University of Geneva offers a deep learning course taught by François Fleuret, focusing on the PyTorch framework.
- The course covers topics such as tensor operations, gradient descent, and deep-learning techniques.
- It provides slides, recordings, and a virtual machine for download, as well as a companion book called "The Little Book of Deep Learning".

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38331200)

- The post offers insights into a Deep Learning Course and provides a link to Stanford's machine learning lecture series.
- Participants highlight the significance of a strong foundation in linear algebra, probability, calculus, and coding for deep learning and machine learning.
- Various resources, including online courses, books, and videos, are recommended to enhance understanding in deep learning, with an emphasis on personal effort and commitment to becoming an expert in ML/DL.

## [Common Mistakes in Data Visualization: A Guide to Better Graphs](https://github.com/cxli233/FriendsDontLetFriends)

- The author discusses common mistakes and bad practices in data visualization, providing examples and explanations for each mistake.
- Examples of these mistakes include using bar plots for mean separation, using violin plots for small sample sizes, using bidirectional color scales for unidirectional data, and making bar plot meadows.
- The importance of reordering rows and columns in heatmaps, checking for outliers, considering data range at each factor level, trying different layouts for network graphs, and avoiding confusion between position and length-based visualizations are also highlighted.
- The author advises against using pie charts or concentric donuts, as well as red/green and rainbow color scales.
- The conclusion emphasizes the need to optimize stacked bar plots by reordering the bars.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38340226)

- The article and forum emphasize the significance of creating accurate and informative graphs, while criticizing ineffective heatmaps and data manipulation.
- Participants suggest resources such as Edward Tufte's book and John Tukey's paper to improve data visualization skills.
- The discussion explores the application of Tufte's principles and the potential for misleading information in graphs, with recommendations for understanding human perception of data and creating effective charts and graphs.

## [datetime.utcnow() Deprecation in Python 3.12: Beware of Timezone Issues](https://blog.miguelgrinberg.com/post/it-s-time-for-a-change-datetime-utcnow-is-now-deprecated)

- Python 3.12 is deprecating and planning to remove certain functions in the datetime module, which return timezone-less datetime objects, potentially causing problems.
- The author recommends using alternative functions due to the debate surrounding the usage of naive or aware datetimes in Python.
- Storing datetimes in UTC and keeping timezone information up to date are emphasized as crucial practices, and various participants in the discussion express their opinions and concerns regarding timezone handling in programming languages.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38333116)

- The discussion focuses on time zones, datetime functions, and the challenges they pose in programming.
- Opinions on breaking changes, code migration, and backward compatibility are debated.
- The discussion also covers coordinating schedules across time zones and the impact of daylight saving time.

## [Zero-K: Latest Update Introduces New Features and Gameplay Improvements](https://zero-k.info/)

- Zero-K is a free real-time strategy game with physics-based units and projectiles, offering over 100 unique units and various gameplay options.
- The latest update brings new bombers, unit adjustments, balance changes, and expanded modding capabilities.
- Additionally, the update includes fixes and enhancements to gameplay, AI opponents, and modding features, introducing a new control point game mode called Artefact Control. Zero-K strives to be the top-ranked free real-time strategy game.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38331349)

- The article and comment thread compare the RTS games Zero-K and Beyond All Reason (BAR) as successors to Total Annihilation.
- They discuss differences in gameplay, economy, and population caps between the two games.
- Other topics include turtling strategies, the potential revival of the RTS genre, Zero-K's gameplay, AI, system requirements, game development on Linux, moral implications of war games, and the definition of a game versus a mod.

## [Engaging Engineering Games: Entertaining and Educational Options for All](https://github.com/arcataroger/awesome-engineering-games)

- The author has curated a list of engineering-focused games that are both fun and educational.
- The list includes different sub-genres like factory automation, city builders, route-builders, and computer science games.
- The author has played most of the games and offers personal recommendations and reviews.
- The list is open for additional contributions and suggestions from readers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38336688)

- The Hacker News discussion features recommendations for various types of games related to engineering, coding, and industrial simulations.
- Some of the suggested games include Human Resource Machine, Kerbal Space Program, and Poly Bridge.
- The conversation also delves into topics such as the definition and advantages of "early access" games, as well as the impact of Minecraft on factory game genre.

## [Advantages of LoRA in Fine-Tuning LLMs: Insights, Trade-Offs, and Optimizer Considerations](https://magazine.sebastianraschka.com/p/practical-tips-for-finetuning-llms)

- LoRA (Low-Rank Adaptation) is used to fine-tune custom language models, reducing memory usage and computational resources by decomposing weight changes.
- The outcomes of using LoRA are consistent with minimal variation based on optimizer choice, with potential advantages of using SGD over Adam optimizer.
- Insights and lessons learned from experiments include the importance of applying LoRA across all layers and efficient fine-tuning of large models with limited GPU memory, as well as considerations around implementing LoRA, dataset impacts, and the potential benefits of using other optimization algorithms.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38338635)

- The article provides practical tips for fine-tuning Language Model (LLMs) using LoRA (Low-Rank Adaptation).
- It suggests considering LLMs as a continuum rather than distinct thresholds and grouping research based on weight classes.
- The importance of including task-specific examples during fine-tuning and optimizing LoRA parameters for improved performance is discussed.

## [21 Species, including Bachman's Warbler, Declared Extinct by U.S. Agency](https://www.pbsnc.org/blogs/science/us-agency-declares-21-species-now-extinct/)

- The U.S. Agency has confirmed the extinction of 21 species, including the Bachman's warbler.
- This declaration highlights the alarming rate of biodiversity loss and the urgent need for conservation efforts.
- The Bachman's warbler, along with other species, will no longer be found in the wild, emphasizing the irreversible consequences of human activities on our ecosystems.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38333790)

- The discussion focuses on the extinction of species and the impact of human activities on biodiversity.
- Various viewpoints are presented, including the role of technology in minimizing environmental damage and the challenges of preserving genetic diversity.
- The conversation emphasizes the importance of collective action to address environmental challenges and maintain the balance within ecosystems.

## [Kyle Vogt Resigns as Cruise CEO Amid Safety Concerns](https://techcrunch.com/2023/11/19/cruise-co-founder-and-ceo-kyle-vogt-resigns/)

- Kyle Vogt, co-founder and CEO of Cruise, has stepped down from his role.
- Mo Elshenawy, the current executive vice president of engineering at Cruise, will assume the position of president and CTO.
- The resignation follows the suspension of Cruise's permits by the California Department of Motor Vehicles, stemming from an incident involving a pedestrian and a Cruise robotaxi. Cruise has received criticism for poor management and a lack of emphasis on safety, resulting in low morale and layoffs. Vogt plans to spend time with his family and explore new ventures, while GM underscores the importance of safety and accountability to rebuild public trust.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38341466)

- The co-founder and president of GM-owned self-driving car company Cruise has resigned, leading to speculation about the future direction of the company.
- The departure raises concerns about safety, negative experiences, and similarities to Uber's failed self-driving efforts.
- The CEO's exit may impact the development of Cruise's onboard software, and the company could face challenges in fundraising.

## [I Choose to Work from Home: Balancing Job Satisfaction and Personal Growth](https://shavingtheyak.com/2023/10/25/wfh-part1/)

- The author advocates for the benefits of working from home, including increased focus, reduced distractions, and the convenience of a dedicated workspace.
- They challenge management's objections to remote work and question the loyalty employees owe to companies that don't prioritize their well-being or career development.
- The article highlights the need for a balance between job satisfaction and personal growth.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38334084)

- The discussion examines the pros and cons of remote work compared to traditional office work.
- Factors such as work-life balance, social interaction, productivity, and individual circumstances are considered.
- The conversation emphasizes the importance of companies accommodating different work preferences and creating a healthy and flexible work environment.

## [Kyutai AI Research Lab Secures €300M Funding, Will Make Everything Open Source](https://techcrunch.com/2023/11/17/kyutai-is-an-french-ai-research-lab-with-a-330-million-budget-that-will-make-everything-open-source/)

- French billionaire Xavier Niel has unveiled his plans for Kyutai, a nonprofit AI research lab in Paris, focused on artificial general intelligence.
- The lab has secured funding of around €300 million ($330 million) from multiple sources, including French billionaire Rodolphe Saadé.
- Kyutai has acquired a thousand Nvidia GPUs from Scaleway to meet its computational requirements and has hired a strong scientific team with notable AI researchers as advisors. The lab intends to release open source models, training source code, and data. Additionally, Niel supports the regulation of AI use cases, aligning with France's viewpoint on the European AI Act.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38331751)

- The forum discussion revolves around open-source software, AI models, language learning, starting AI businesses in Europe, and the performance of the AI model Mistral.
- Participants share their views on the definition and significance of open source, copyrightability of AI models, language learning, starting AI companies in Europe, and concerns about Mistral's performance.
- Funding allocation and advancements in the field of AI are also briefly discussed.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Satya Nadella reaffirms commitment to OpenAI partnership, expresses confidence in product roadmap" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Satya%20Nadella%20reaffirms%20commitment%20to%20OpenAI%20partnership%2C%20expresses%20confidence%20in%20product%20roadmap&subheading=Monday%2C%20November%2020%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
