---
slug: '/2023/11/21'
---

# 2023-11-21

## [YouTube Slows Down Video Load Time for Firefox Users, Sparking Concerns of Antitrust Abuse](https://old.reddit.com/r/youtube/comments/17z8hsz/youtube_has_started_to_artificially_slow_down/)

- Users on the r/youtube subreddit are raising concerns about YouTube, such as slow video loading on Firefox and potential antitrust abuse.
- There are discussions about a "Web Integrity API" potentially restricting website access for certain browsers, sparking calls for anti-trust oversight and legal action against YouTube.
- Users have experienced delays, buffering, and problems with ad blockers on the platform, prompting some to find solutions while others express frustration with YouTube's actions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38345858)

- Users are reporting slow video load times on YouTube when using Firefox, potentially due to intentional code delaying video loading to detect adblocker usage.
- Discussions are ongoing about the intentions behind certain website features, the importance of load times, and the use of sleep functions in programming.
- Users are exploring alternative platforms for watching and downloading videos, expressing frustrations with streaming services, and voicing concerns about discrimination and false advertising.
- There are also discussions about Google's influence on browsers, the performance and compatibility of Google platforms on Firefox, and the potential anti-competitive behavior of Google.

## [OpenAI Employees Demand Board Resignation and Threaten Mass Exodus](https://www.wired.com/story/openai-staff-walk-protest-sam-altman/)

- Over 730 employees of OpenAI have signed an open letter demanding that the startup's board resign and reinstate the ousted CEO, Sam Altman.
- The employees believe that the board's decision to terminate Altman and remove Greg Brockman from the board has put the company's work and mission at risk.
- The letter also calls for the appointment of two new independent lead board members, and there is a possibility that the employees may join Altman at Microsoft, where he and Brockman have been appointed to lead a new advanced AI research unit.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38347868)

- OpenAI is facing internal conflicts and the possibility of resignations due to disagreements with its board, possibly related to Microsoft's influence and access to code.
- The acquisition of OpenAI by Microsoft and the potential use of Quora's dataset are discussed, raising concerns about Microsoft's control over OpenAI's funding and the devaluation of Azure credits.
- There are debates about the future of Artificial General Intelligence (AGI), the use of language models in advancing towards AGI, and the ethical implications of a larger company exerting dominance over a smaller one. The discussion also questions OpenAI's leadership, credibility, and reputation.

## [Former OpenAI CEO Sam Altman still pushing for return despite firing](https://www.theverge.com/2023/11/20/23969586/sam-altman-plotting-return-open-ai-microsoft)

- Former OpenAI CEO Sam Altman and co-founder Greg Brockman are seeking to return to the company if the board members who fired Altman step aside.
- The recent appointment of a new CEO, Emmett Shear, initially appeared to end Altman's chances of returning, but there is ongoing pressure on the board from employees and board member Ilya Sutskever who support Altman.
- Altman's move to Microsoft is not yet finalized, and negotiations are still underway to determine the nature of their future collaboration. A power struggle within OpenAI has arisen, leading to employee anger and disengagement in company meetings. Altman and Microsoft are working towards a resolution that preserves the board's dignity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38352891)

- Sam Altman, former president of Y Combinator and former CEO of OpenAI, is seeking to return as CEO following a call for the board's resignation by 700 employees.
- The board of OpenAI has faced criticism for favoring profit over safety, sparking a debate on the ethics of defense technology and the role of the United States in spreading cultural values.
- Speculations surround OpenAI's future, Microsoft's involvement, and the motivations of individuals involved, while concerns are raised about legal liability and the potential collapse of the company. The impact of Altman's departure on OpenAI employees and the organization is also discussed.

## [Ilya Sutskever Apologizes for Board's Actions, Vows to Reunite OpenAI](https://twitter.com/ilyasut/status/1726590052392956028)

- Ilya Sutskever expresses regret for his involvement in the board's actions, stating that he never intended harm to OpenAI.
- Sutskever emphasizes his love for the company and pledges to work towards reuniting it.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38347501)

- OpenAI has recently experienced significant turmoil and leadership changes, sparking speculation about the motivations behind these decisions.
- The conversation includes discussion of personal competition, external pressures, and conflicts of interest as potential factors influencing the board's actions.
- Commenters express criticism of the lack of transparency and question the competence and reasoning of those involved, highlighting concerns about AI safety, control, and potential negative consequences for the company and its investors.

## [Employees at OpenAI Call for Resignation of Board](https://twitter.com/karaswisher/status/1726598360277356775)

- 550 out of 700 employees at OpenAI have called for the resignation of the board.
- This widespread sentiment among employees suggests a significant level of dissatisfaction or disagreement within the organization.
- The request for the board's resignation indicates a deep-rooted issue that needs to be addressed by OpenAI's leadership.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38348010)

- 550 out of 700 employees at OpenAI are demanding the resignation of the board.
- The employees are expressing their lack of confidence in the current leadership.
- The call for resignation highlights significant dissatisfaction within the company.

## [OpenAI employees ready to quit as Sam Altman's ousting prompts backlash](https://www.businessinsider.com/openais-employees-given-explanations-why-sam-altman-out-2023-11)

- OpenAI employees are ready to resign following the removal of CEO Sam Altman, with over 90% signing an open letter condemning the decision.
- The board cited Altman's lack of openness in communication as the reason for his departure, but employees are skeptical of this explanation.
- Interim CEO Emmett Shear's introduction at a meeting triggered a range of emotions from shock to anger among the staff, and sources suggest a mass exodus of employees is imminent.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38356534)

- Sam Altman, former CEO of OpenAI, has been fired for reasons speculated to be related to financial involvement and a disagreement over product success vs. organizational resources.
- Concerns have been raised about OpenAI's actions and motivations, including its transition to a for-profit subsidiary, funding from Saudi Arabia, and collaboration with Microsoft.
- There is skepticism and speculation surrounding Altman's firing, as well as concerns about conflicts of interest and manipulation within the organization. Critics question the motives and suitability of certain board members and express frustration with OpenAI's business practices.

## [Boeing Declines Payment, Ransomware Group Leaks 45 GB of Data](https://www.itbrew.com/stories/2023/11/17/after-boeing-declines-to-pay-up-ransomware-group-leaks-45-gb-of-data)

- Boeing, a major aircraft industry player, has fallen victim to the LockBit ransomware group, which has ties to Russia.
- LockBit demanded a ransom from Boeing and, when the company refused to pay, the group released approximately 45 GB of sensitive company data online.
- The leaked information includes corporate emails and files from Citrix, a cloud computing company. Experts are concerned about potential wider consequences because of Boeing's integration with Aviall, a parts distributor it acquired in 2006.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38352484)

- The discussion focuses on the ransomware attack on Boeing, its implications for national security, and the leaked data.
- There is a conversation about the transparency of costs in supplier contract negotiations and the challenges of evaluating aircraft safety.
- The trustworthiness of ransomware groups, legality and consequences of paying ransoms, and motivations and tactics of the groups are also discussed.

## [OpenAI's Misalignment Raises Concerns Over Microsoft's Growing Influence](https://stratechery.com/2023/openais-misalignment-and-microsofts-gain/)

- OpenAI's CEO and President have been fired by the board, leading to their employment at Microsoft.
- Microsoft already has a perpetual license to OpenAI's IP, strengthening their position in the AI industry.
- Concerns about OpenAI's incentives exist, as their mission shifted over time and financial needs led to creating OpenAI Global with Microsoft as a minority owner.
- (Note: There are more points in the text, but I have selected the most important ones for the summary.)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38346869)

- The discussion revolves around OpenAI's partnership with Microsoft, with concerns raised about potential negative effects on OpenAI employees and doubts about the future of OpenAI under Microsoft's leadership.
- There is also speculation about the possible brain drain of talented employees from OpenAI due to the acquisition.
- The conversation delves into broader topics such as the societal impact of AI, the role of non-profit organizations, and the implications of automation in various industries.

## [Unlocking the Power of Functional Programming: Insights from Carnegie Mellon University's Course](https://brandonspark.github.io/150/)

- The speaker shares their experience as an instructor for a functional programming class at Carnegie Mellon University.
- They believe that functional programming is crucial for computer science students and have made their lecture materials accessible online at no cost.
- The course covers a range of topics including recursion, data structures, sorting, and polymorphism, among others, with a focus on the course's transformative impact.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38351195)

- The Hacker News discussion covered various aspects of functional programming, including sharing resources and recommending courses.
- There was a debate about referential transparency in Lisp and the challenges of working with graph algorithms in a functional paradigm.
- The conversation also discussed the choice of programming language for teaching functional programming courses and the benefits of functional programming in managing side effects and AI-generated code.

## [River: A Fast and Robust Job Queue for Go and Postgres](https://brandur.org/river)

- The author introduces a new job queue called River, specifically designed for Go and Postgres.
- River offers various features like batch insertion, error handling, and periodic jobs.
- It leverages Go's generics feature and utilizes Postgres' binary protocol for performance optimization, minimizing round trips to the database.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38349716)

- The discussion focuses on job queue systems and their implementation in Go programming language and Postgres database.
- Users debate the pros and cons of using relational databases for job queues, suggesting alternative solutions like Redis or RMQ.
- The conversation delves into the limitations and benefits of existing job queue projects, emphasizing the importance of credit and collaboration between projects.

## [Typst: Streamlining Scientific Paper Writing with Enhanced Layout and Formatting](https://typst.app/)

- Typst is a web-based writing tool designed for scientific papers, prioritizing layout and formatting.
- It enables seamless collaboration, provides pre-designed templates for automatic content formatting, and offers superior typographical output.
- User-friendly, Typst includes features like math support and figure handling, accompanied by a 4-step tutorial and clear error messages. It is an open-source tool with ongoing development for additional features.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38354422)

- Typst is a tool designed to replace LaTeX and offers a smoother user experience than Overleaf.
- It is praised for its dedicated transition guide from LaTeX and its ability to define custom styles.
- Some users are unsure if journals and conferences will adopt Typst, but it is seen as a nice alternative to LaTeX with real-time collaboration features.

## [Google Accused of Sabotaging Firefox for Chrome's Advantage](https://www.zdnet.com/article/former-mozilla-exec-google-has-sabotaged-firefox-for-years/)

- Former Mozilla executive accuses Google of deliberately sabotaging Firefox to promote Chrome's adoption over the past ten years.
- Accusations include Google introducing bugs on their sites that only affect Firefox users and attributing them to accidents.
- Users are drawing parallels between Google's tactics and Microsoft's actions during the Internet Explorer era.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38349357)

- Allegations have arisen that Google may be intentionally sabotaging the Firefox browser and engaging in anti-competitive practices in web browsing.
- Users have reported experiencing glitches and compatibility issues with non-Chrome browsers, sparking concerns about the dominance of certain browser engines and Google's practices.
- The conversation also includes criticism of Mozilla's financial decisions and discussions comparing Firefox's performance and memory issues to Chrome, as well as debates about the decline of Firefox as a dominant browser and user trust in the browser.

## [Roc: A Versatile Programming Language for Efficient Code Building and Execution](https://www.roc-lang.org/)

- Roc is a programming language designed for efficiency in building and running code, with support for command-line interfaces, web servers, and embedding in other languages.
- Despite being in early development stages, Roc has shown its usability for various tasks and prioritizes user-friendliness with features like pattern matching and string interpolation.
- Roc can generate machine code or WebAssembly and offers support for database access, and it is backed by corporate sponsors and individual contributors committed to its ongoing development and improvement.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38346862)

- The discussion provides insights into the features and optimizations of the Roc programming language, as well as its similarities to languages like Elm and Haskell.
- It also touches on the behavior of the Roc community and mentions other programming languages such as F#, Eff, and HVM.
- The importance of type annotations, the use of macros, and the role of debuggers in programming are also discussed.

## [OpenAI's Coherence and Actions Under Scrutiny](https://builtnotfound.proseful.com/openais-chaos-does-not-add-up)

- The summary raises concerns about the lack of cohesion and questionable actions within OpenAI.
- It highlights the surprise of the board potentially ousting the CEO and the absence of checks on Microsoft's investment.
- Communication issues within the board are mentioned, along with questioning the alignment of goals and the decision to sell a significant portion to Microsoft.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38349653)

- The article explores the internal conflicts and controversies happening at OpenAI, focusing on the motivations of the board members and Microsoft's potential influence.
- Speculation around power struggles, conspiracy theories, and the implications for OpenAI's future are discussed.
- The broader implications of AI development, corporate maneuvers, and control of artificial general intelligence are also examined, sparking various opinions and theories about the situation at OpenAI and its potential consequences.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="YouTube Slows Down Video Load Time for Firefox Users, Sparking Concerns of Antitrust Abuse" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=YouTube%20Slows%20Down%20Video%20Load%20Time%20for%20Firefox%20Users%2C%20Sparking%20Concerns%20of%20Antitrust%20Abuse&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20November%2021%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
