---
slug: '/2023/11/25'
---

# 2023-11-25

## [Generative AI: A Beginner's GuideGitHub Repo for More Info](https://microsoft.github.io/generative-ai-for-beginners/#/)

- The topic of the post is "Generative AI for Beginners".
- The post provides a link to a GitHub repository for additional information on the topic.
- No further details or content are provided in the summary.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38405823)

- Users share resources and recommendations for beginners to learn about generative AI, including deep learning and language models.
- The discussion covers challenges and concerns about prompt injection, vulnerability of AI assistants, and the limitations and risks of using AI models.
- The role of AI engineers and the relevance of a course on using ML/AI in application development are explored, providing insights on learning paths, tools, and the application of AI in different fields.

## [Shopify's Black Friday and Cyber Monday Weekend: Live Data Revealed](https://bfcm.shopify.com/)

- The summary provides live data for the Black Friday and Cyber Monday weekend on Shopify.
- Currently, there are no sales or orders per minute, zero unique shoppers, and no carbon removed.
- For more insights, the summary suggests referring to a specific timestamp.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38403891)

- Shopify has launched a live dashboard to provide real-time data on online store activity during the Black Friday Cyber Monday period.
- Discussions include the capabilities of order processing, the adoption of Black Friday in various countries, and the environmental impact of online shopping on carbon emissions.
- There is criticism and suggestions regarding Shopify's carbon removal program, as well as skepticism about their claims on carbon reduction.

## [Autonomous excavator builds a six-meter-high dry-stone wall](https://ethz.ch/en/news-and-events/eth-news/news/2023/11/autonomous-excavator-constructs-a-six-metre-high-dry-stone-wall.html)

- Researchers at ETH Zurich have created an autonomous excavator called HEAP that can build a six-meter-high dry-stone wall using large stones and demolition debris.
- The excavator utilizes sensors and machine vision to scan and pick up stones, assess their weight and position, and accurately place them in the desired location.
- This development reduces the reliance on manual labor in dry stone wall construction and makes efficient use of locally available materials.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38408920)

- The conversation focuses on using alternative materials like stones in construction to lower CO2 emissions.
- Advances in construction methods using autonomous robots and neural networks are explored.
- The importance of proper stone placement, wall design, and stability of stone structures for structural integrity is highlighted.
- The use of gabions as an alternative to dry stone walls for retaining water in gardens is discussed.
- The preference for older equipment by backhoe operators and the potential benefits and limitations of autonomous construction robots are touched upon.
- The potential future deployment of AI robots in construction, especially in poorer regions, is theorized.

## [The Pitfalls of Commodified Technical Work](https://ludic.mataroa.blog/blog/the-failed-commodification-of-technical-work/)

- The article explores the unsuccessful attempt to turn technical work into a commodity and emphasizes the significance of human connection, creativity, and understanding in the workplace.
- It critiques the overreliance on tools and software solutions to solve problems, emphasizing the importance of addressing root causes and implementing necessary changes.
- The author discusses the sales of ineffective products to decision-makers who may not be aware of their ineffectiveness and highlights the role of individuals in successfully operating complex systems. The article ultimately argues against the complete commodification of work and emphasizes the value of human aspects in the workplace.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38402515)

- The discussion focuses on the commodification of technical work in the technology industry and the challenges it presents.
- The transition from older programming languages to newer ones and its impact on software development is explored.
- Participants express nostalgia for past tools and highlight the emergence of new roles and repetitive work in the industry.

## [The Importance of Attention to Detail in Construction Projects](http://johnsalvatier.org/blog/2017/reality-has-a-surprising-amount-of-detail)

- The author emphasizes the complexity of construction projects and the significance of paying attention to intricate details.
- Seemingly simple tasks can present unexpected challenges, highlighting the need for creativity and problem-solving skills.
- Actively seeking out new perspectives is crucial to avoid intellectual stagnation and fully understand important details.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38407851)

- The discussion explores various topics, such as the complexity and usefulness of mathematics and the importance of proper construction and safety measures in building stairs.
- Beliefs play a role in shaping our understanding of the world, and there is fascination with woodworking and deterministic machines.
- Pair programming and seeking different perspectives are beneficial, as is clarifying terms in communication and considering different viewpoints in discussions.

## [Cicero: AI Diplomacy Player Achieves Human-Level Strategy, Communication, and Alliance Formation](https://ai.meta.com/research/cicero/)

- Meta has developed an AI named Cicero that excels at playing the strategy game Diplomacy using strategic reasoning and natural language processing.
- Cicero achieved an impressive performance, scoring double the average score of human players and ranking in the top 10%.
- This development highlights the progress in AI technology, particularly in chatbots, game-playing AIs, and language generation. It also emphasizes the potential of AI advancements like Cicero in enhancing cooperative agents and immersive experiences in gaming and the metaverse. Resources for further exploration of Cicero are available for download.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38407521)


## [Easily Create CSS Animations with Animotion](https://cssanimotion.pages.dev/)

- No-Code Animotion is a visual tool for creating CSS animations without coding.
- Users can manipulate elements to create animations using features like a keyframes editor, pre-made animations, and built-in easings.
- For the best performance, it is recommended to use the app on larger screens and modern web browsers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38402776)

- Animotion is a CSS animation app praised for its user-friendly interface and mobile compatibility.
- Users have mentioned the lack of undo/redo functionality as a downside.
- Nonetheless, Animotion is still considered a valuable and impressive tool for creating CSS animations.

## [IP Guide: A Comprehensive Resource for IP Address and ASN Information](https://ip.guide)


### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38409164)

- The author introduces their project called IP Guide, which utilizes Rust and React to provide information on IP addresses, networks, and ASNs.
- Users suggest improvements such as including network start/ending addresses and supporting IPv6.
- The conversation also covers topics like DNS lookups, reverse DNS limitations, and HTTP APIs, as well as mentioning a website called IPNetDB that offers free mmdb files for IPs and ASNs.

## [Dismissing the Nonsense: Yann LeCun on Enhancing LLM Reliability](https://twitter.com/ylecun/status/1728126868342145481)

- Yann LeCun is addressing the misinformation surrounding Q* and emphasizing the need to replace Auto-Regressive token prediction with planning to improve the reliability of Language Models (LLM).
- Prominent research institutions such as FAIR, DeepMind, and OpenAI are actively involved in this area and have already shared their research findings.
- The focus is on enhancing the performance and accuracy of Language Models, which are crucial for various natural language processing tasks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38407741)

- The discussions revolve around various topics, including leaked information suggesting that the Q* AI breakthrough may be a distraction from drama at OpenAI.
- Different perspectives are presented, with some considering these claims as conspiracy theories, while others speculate about motives and intentions.
- There are debates about the competence of OpenAI, concerns about AI safety and regulation, skepticism towards predicting the future of AI, and discussions about the risks of economic turmoil and the development of dangerous technologies.

## [Mail-in-a-Box: Set Up Your Own Secure Mail Server Easily](https://github.com/mail-in-a-box/mailinabox)

- Mail-in-a-Box is an open-source project that allows individuals to easily and securely set up their own mail server on a Ubuntu machine.
- It promotes decentralization, innovation, and privacy on the web while providing automated and auditable configuration.
- Features include webmail, spam filtering, DNS management, backups, firewall, and intrusion protection. It has gained popularity in the hacker community and has a support forum available.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38406478)

- Mail-in-a-Box is a popular mail server software for hosting personal email, with minimal issues reported in mail delivery.
- Some users have experienced difficulties with certain providers, such as Microsoft Outlook.
- Alternative options for hosting SMTP servers are suggested, and the advantages of self-hosting email are discussed, including privacy and security.

## [The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess Decompilation Progress and Tools](https://github.com/zeldaret/tp)

- This repository is an ongoing effort to decompile The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess for GameCube (USA version).
- It contains several folders dedicated to documentation, source code, libraries, and tools.
- The project is licensed under CC0-1.0 and includes a progress file, a README file, and a link to further project details.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38407106)

- The legality and copyright implications of decompiling video game code, notably Nintendo projects, are being debated.
- Some argue that decompilation is a way of creating new code and not a violation of copyright laws, while others see it as a derivative work based on the original executable.
- The discussion also includes the potential for fair use and how it applies to decompilation, taking into account the legal perspectives in the US and EU. Furthermore, there is confusion regarding the takedown of fan games and the role of copyrighted art assets in these takedowns.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Generative AI: A Beginner's GuideGitHub Repo for More Info" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Generative%20AI%3A%20A%20Beginner's%20GuideGitHub%20Repo%20for%20More%20Info&subheading=Saturday%2C%20November%2025%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
