---
slug: '/2023/11/26'
---

# 2023-11-26

## [Reevaluating the Dunning-Kruger Effect: Autocorrelation as an Explanation](https://economicsfromthetopdown.com/2022/04/08/the-dunning-kruger-effect-is-autocorrelation/)

- The Dunning-Kruger effect, which suggests that unskilled individuals overestimate their competence, is being reevaluated as a statistical artifact caused by autocorrelation.
- Replication studies have found no evidence of the effect, questioning its existence as a psychological phenomenon.
- Criticisms of the original study highlight statistical errors and biases, emphasizing the need for better scientific analysis and awareness of flaws in the Dunning-Kruger effect.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38415252)

- The Dunning-Kruger effect is a psychological phenomenon where people with lower abilities tend to overestimate their competence, while those with higher abilities tend to underestimate themselves.
- There is debate and criticism surrounding the accuracy and interpretation of the effect, including discussions on methodological flaws, replication studies, autocorrelation, and societal factors.
- The complexity of self-assessment and the presence of Impostor Syndrome are mentioned, which is related to the Dunning-Kruger effect.

## [Communicating Browser Window Dimensions and Position Using Socket Clients: A Fun and Shareable Experiment](https://github.com/Momciloo/fun-with-sockets)

- The article explores how two browser windows can share screen dimensions, window size, and position using socket clients.
- The author prefers using socket clients over localStorage due to the entertainment value and ease of sharing with friends.
- A demo and codebase are available for reference.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38413660)


## [NVIDIA sued for trade secret theft: employee's blunder exposes rival's code](https://www.engadget.com/nvidia-sued-for-stealing-trade-secrets-after-screensharing-blunder-showed-rival-companys-code-063009605.html)

- NVIDIA is being sued by French automotive company Valeo over allegations of trade secret theft.
- The lawsuit was filed after an NVIDIA employee accidentally displayed Valeo's source code files in a screensharing meeting.
- NVIDIA denies the allegations and asserts that they have implemented measures to safeguard their clients' rights.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38415875)

- Nvidia is facing a lawsuit for allegedly stealing trade secrets from a competitor, sparking debates on the ethics of AI-based code generation tools and the patentability of software and mathematical ideas.
- Discussions also cover topics such as Nvidia's drivers and proprietary code, the impact on the company's success, and the importance of intellectual property protection.
- Other areas of discussion include hiring employees from rival companies, distinguishing between IP infringement and not, ownership of code in employment contracts, consequences of code theft, legal implications of using personal code, and debate on learning from others' projects without reproducing copyrighted code.

## [Naev: Embark on an Open-Source Space Adventure of Trade and Combat](https://naev.org/)

- Naev is an open-source space exploration, trade, and combat game with real-time gameplay and a large galaxy to explore.
- Players can earn money by completing missions and can customize their ships.
- Developers are actively seeking contributions in areas like story creation, art, sound, gameplay balancing, and coding, offering an opportunity for players to get involved and make an impact on the game's development.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38418262)

- Naev is a space exploration and combat game that offers a stealth mechanic and improved AI, surpassing Escape Velocity in terms of gameplay and mechanics.
- Starsector is recommended for its enjoyable gameplay and beautiful design.
- Endless Sky receives praise for its nuanced storyline, and helpful combat tips are provided. Space Rangers is highly regarded for its diverse gameplay and story development.

## [Why 56k is the Fastest Dialup Modem Speed](https://www.10stripe.com/articles/why-is-56k-the-fastest-dialup-modem-speed.php)

- The article delves into the reasons why "56k" is considered the fastest dialup modem speed.
- It provides technical insights into the history of phone networks, digitization, and the technology's limitations.
- The term "56k" refers to a maximum data rate of 56 kilobits per second, but actual connection speeds are lower due to FCC regulations and phone network complexities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38413727)

- The article explains the reasons behind the maximum speed of 56k in dial-up modems and explores the limitations of different modem technologies.
- It also discusses the transition from analog to digital communication systems and the development of technologies like T-1 lines, microwave relays, and DSL.
- The article touches on the topic of inequality in access to technology and its impact on quality of life.

## [Shh: Simplifying Shell Scripting with Haskell](https://github.com/luke-clifton/shh)

- Shh is a library in Haskell that enables shell-like programming and is meant to replace shell scripts.
- The library provides functions to simulate the shell environment and supports features like redirection, piping, concurrency, and capturing process output.
- Shh does not have built-in support for globbing or string interpolation, but suggests using external libraries for these functionalities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38413064)

- Shh is a shell scripting tool written in Haskell aimed at replacing large bash scripts.
- Users recommend alternative tools like Xonsh, Turtle, Shelly, and Rash for migrating away from bash scripts.
- The discussion explores alternatives to bash scripts, including Lisps and statically typed functional languages, as well as the benefits of using NixOS for ease of use with tools and libraries.

## [Darktable: Issues with structure, management, and features causing frustration and fork decisions](https://ansel.photos/en/news/darktable-dans-le-mur-au-ralenti/)

- Darktable software, aimed at amateur photographers, has been facing problems related to lack of organization, project management, and technical considerations.
- Recent changes to the software have led to a degradation of features, making it difficult for users to effectively utilize the software and increasing the risk of errors.
- There are concerns about the code quality, complexity, and lack of documentation, resulting in frustration among users and prompting some to consider forking the software or exploring alternative options.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38412582)

- Users express concerns about the performance, interface lag, and lack of basic features in Darktable, a photo editing software.
- Alternative software options such as Ansel, RawTherapee, DxO, and Lightroom are mentioned and compared.
- The conversation covers topics such as the development and maintenance of Darktable, quality and user interface design in software development, open-source projects, subscription models, and accommodating user preferences in photography software.

## [New Wave Sci-Fi: 75 Best Novels 1964–1983](https://www.hilobrow.com/new-wave-sci-fi/)

- The summary gives an overview of science fiction novels, including works from the New Wave era and other time periods.
- It mentions notable authors and their books, providing brief descriptions of each plot and themes.
- The summary highlights the unique elements and influences of each work, giving readers a sense of the diverse range of science fiction literature.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38414841)

- Users are engaging in a discussion about science fiction novels from 1964-1983, specifically focusing on the subgenre of "New Wave Science Fiction."
- Participants share their opinions and experiences with various books and authors, as well as discussing the evolution of science fiction genres and the impact of technology on literature."
- The conversation highlights the importance of recognizing forgotten authors, the influence of certain writers like Philip K. Dick, and the diversity and creativity of science fiction during this period. Some participants express dissatisfaction with the recommended list, while others defend it as a true reflection of the genre."

## [The Frustrations of Packaging Software with Docker in Linux Distributions](https://computer.rip/2023-11-25-the-curse-of-docker.html)

- Packaging software in Linux distributions, especially using Docker, is challenging and frustrating.
- Collaboration between software developers and distributions is crucial for widespread availability and use of software.
- The author dislikes Docker as a means of distributing software to end users due to various difficulties and limitations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38418359)

- Users are divided on the advantages and drawbacks of using Docker for software packaging and deployment.
- Supporters argue that Docker simplifies configuration and deployment of complex software, while others express concerns about dependency issues and security updates.
- The author explores the challenges and benefits of Docker usage, while some users express frustrations with its documentation and compatibility problems.

## [Developers frustrated with lack of response from .NET MAUI team](https://github.com/dotnet/maui/issues/19018)

- The MAUI team is being criticized for their lack of response to reported issues and bugs, causing frustration among users.
- Users are disappointed with the unresolved issues, visual bugs, and the need for platform-specific code in MAUI compared to previous technologies like WPF.
- Suggestions are made to hire more people to systematically fix bugs and improve the implementation of MAUI.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38412818)

- Developers are unhappy with Microsoft's .NET MAUI framework and the lack of communication from the team.
- Concerns are raised about Microsoft's commitment to the framework, as well as frustration with unresolved issues and bugs.
- Users criticize Microsoft's handling of development tools and express disappointment with their overall software quality.

## [FLSHclust algorithm uncovers 188 new CRISPR genes, unlocking genome editing potential](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-023-03697-w)

- Researchers have created an algorithm, FLSHclust, which can identify rare types of CRISPR systems by analyzing genetic sequences.
- The algorithm discovered 188 new genes linked to CRISPR by examining millions of genomes.
- These findings offer potential for new applications in genome editing and biological engineering, but more research is needed to fully understand these systems and their uses.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38415851)

- New CRISPR systems have been found with potential for genome editing, offering more options for targeted gene editing and potential for novel biotechnologies.
- Efficient analysis of large sequence databases is now possible with a fast locality-sensitive hashing-based clustering algorithm, enabling the discovery of rare biological systems.
- However, complex regulatory networks and challenges must be addressed to fully comprehend the impact of gene editing.

## [Introducing Flix: A Functional Programming Language with Unique Features](https://flix.dev/)

- Flix is a programming language developed by Aarhus University and the University of Waterloo, with input from open source contributors.
- It is a functional-first language that draws inspiration from OCaml, Haskell, Rust, and Scala.
- Flix offers a range of features including algebraic data types, pattern matching, extensible records, type classes, higher-kinded types, polymorphic effects, region-based local mutation, purity reflection, and first-class Datalog constraints.
- The language compiles to JVM bytecode and has a Visual Studio Code plugin for development.
- Flix aims to provide a unique combination of features not found in other programming languages.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38419263)

- Updates to the Flix Programming Language include error-tolerance, algebraic effects, and improved package management.
- Controversial design choices and the need for balance in functional programming are discussed.
- The use of local mutation, the history of functional programming languages, and the advantages/challenges of pure functions are touched upon.
- The author suggests that coding style and methodology could enhance purely functional languages.
- Other languages like Rust and projects like Crumb are mentioned.
- Flix's capabilities and its association with Netflix are discussed.
- Limitations of using English as a programming language are addressed.

## [The Dilemma of Uncensored AI Chatbots: Striking a Balance Between Creativity and Safety](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2023/11/ai-safety-regulations-uncensored-models/676076/)

- There is a debate over uncensored AI models in chatbots, with some advocating for their ability to enhance creativity and human intelligence.
- Others have concerns about potential misuse and harmful consequences, raising questions about AI safety and the need for restrictions.
- Finding the right balance between safety and generative AI is a challenge, and competition among models is crucial to determine the best trade-offs for restrictions while ensuring that a model does not refuse all tasks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38416997)

- Hacker News discussion centers around the limitations and challenges of chatbots, especially concerning controversial and harmful content.
- There is a debate about whether companies should be accountable for such content and the legal risks and liabilities they may face.
- The conversation also delves into the potential for chatbots to produce offensive or controversial responses, the value of chatbots that steer clear of controversial content, and the misuse of language models. Additionally, it touches on the topic of censorship and the significance of preserving freedom of information.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Reevaluating the Dunning-Kruger Effect: Autocorrelation as an Explanation" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Reevaluating%20the%20Dunning-Kruger%20Effect%3A%20Autocorrelation%20as%20an%20Explanation&subheading=Sunday%2C%20November%2026%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
