---
slug: '/2024/10/03'
---

# 2024-10-03

## [Filed: WP Engine Inc. v Automattic Inc. and Matthew Charles Mullenweg [pdf]](https://wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/Complaint-WP-Engine-v-Automattic-et-al-with-Exhibit.pdf)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41726197)

- WP Engine Inc. has filed a lawsuit against Automattic Inc. and its founder, Matthew Charles Mullenweg, leading to controversy and scrutiny.
- Mullenweg's disclosure about Heather Brunner's job interview at Automattic and his decision to halt plugin updates for WordPress users, impacting 1.5 million sites, have raised concerns about trust in WordPress infrastructure.
- Critics have advised Mullenweg to refrain from public comments during the legal proceedings to prevent further complications in the case.

## [Patent troll Sable pays up, dedicates all its patents to the public](https://blog.cloudflare.com/patent-troll-sable-pays-up/)

- Sable IP has settled its lawsuit with Cloudflare, agreeing to pay $225,000 and make its patents public, ending a three-year legal battle over meritless patent claims.
- Cloudflare's Project Jengo, which crowdsources prior art to combat patent trolls, was instrumental in this victory, awarding over $125,000 to participants.
- Sable's decision to dedicate its patents to the public prevents future litigation against other companies using these patents.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41730415)

- Sable, a patent troll, has agreed to pay Cloudflare $225,000 and make its patents public, ending its ability to sue for infringement.
- This decision follows Cloudflare's successful legal battle, which underscores the high costs and challenges companies face when fighting patent trolls.
- Cloudflare's victory is significant as it represents a win against patent trolls, who often hold patents without developing products, using them to extract settlements from companies.

## [Terminal colours are tricky](https://jvns.ca/blog/2024/10/01/terminal-colours/)

- Configuring terminal colors can be difficult due to readability issues and the lack of standardization in the shades of the 16 ANSI colors.- Users can adjust terminal colors through terminal emulator settings or shell scripts, and tools like iTerm2 offer features such as "minimum contrast" to enhance readability.- Synchronizing terminal and Vim themes can prevent color mismatches, with solutions like Base16-shell and base16-vim being popular, though not universally perfect.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41727971)

- Terminal colors can be difficult to manage due to differences in screen setups and limited support in some consoles, with light themes being more affected than dark themes.- To ensure compatibility with basic consoles, use fallback themes when using tools like `fd` or `exa`, and customize terminal emulator color schemes for better readability.- Avoid command-line interface (CLI) tools that override user color preferences with 8bit or 24bit colors; instead, use ANSI colors for consistency and adhere to accessibility guidelines for color contrast.

## [What excessive screen time does to the adult brain](https://longevity.stanford.edu/lifestyle/2024/05/30/what-excessive-screen-time-does-to-the-adult-brain/)

- Excessive screen time, defined as more than two hours daily outside of work, can negatively impact adult brain health, causing issues like eye strain, neck pain, and mental health problems.- Studies indicate that it may lead to thinning of the cerebral cortex, reduced gray matter volume, hindered sleep, and increased risk of brain-related diseases such as dementia.- Experts advise minimizing screen time, particularly in the morning, and suggest engaging in activities like exercise, social interaction, and stress management to promote brain health.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41728001)

- Excessive screen time, particularly in the morning, is suggested to negatively affect adult brain function, though this claim is debated.
- There is ongoing discussion about whether the content viewed or the medium of screens is more harmful, with recommendations to balance screen usage.
- The general consensus emphasizes being mindful of screen time to potentially enhance focus, productivity, and mental health.

## [Canvas is a new way to write and code with ChatGPT](https://openai.com/index/introducing-canvas/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41732634)

- Canvas is a new feature in ChatGPT designed for writing and coding, aiming to rival Claude's capabilities, offering dynamic interaction with code and text.
- Users have mixed reactions, with excitement over interface improvements and concerns about OpenAI's ethical practices and focus on consumer products.
- The gradual rollout of Canvas has sparked discussions on its integration into existing tools and its potential for tasks like code refactoring.

## [What happens to ".io" TLD after UK gives back the Chagos Islands?](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41729526)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41729526)

- The future of the ".io" top-level domain (TLD) is uncertain following the UK's decision to return the Chagos Islands to Mauritius, as the British Indian Ocean Territories will no longer exist.- Despite this, the ".io" domain might continue due to its popularity, similar to the persistence of the ".su" domain after the dissolution of the USSR.- Users with ".io" domains should stay informed about potential changes, as the domain's operation might transfer to Mauritius or be reclassified, with ICANN's policy suggesting a possible phase-out but allowing for exceptions.

## [Image Editing with Gaussian Splatting](https://www.unite.ai/image-editing-with-gaussian-splatting/)

- Researchers from Poland and the UK have developed MiraGe, a novel image editing system that uses Gaussian Splatting to convert 2D image parts into 3D space for manipulation.
- Unlike generative AI models such as Adobe's Firefly, MiraGe employs Gaussian Mesh Splatting (GaMeS) instead of Latent Diffusion Models, enabling detailed and flexible edits by interpreting images as CGI meshes.
- MiraGe integrates with Blender and uses external physics engines for realistic transformations, outperforming previous methods in image quality tests, and its full code is accessible on GitHub.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41729891)

- Gaussian splatting is being investigated for its potential in creative photography and photogrammetry, providing a distinctive visual style without generating actual 3D models.- The technique can work with a single viewpoint by incorporating additional data, allowing for innovative 2D image manipulations and possibly becoming a mainstream tool in camera technology.- There is ongoing debate about its role compared to generative AI, with some advocating for its use as a tool to enhance artistic creativity rather than replace artists.

## [Why my apps will soon be gone from the Google Play Store](https://frozenfractal.com/blog/2024/9/6/why-my-apps-will-soon-be-gone-from-google-play/)

- The developer's apps will be removed from the Google Play Store due to stricter publishing requirements, such as needing a D-U-N-S number and official documents.
- These new requirements are challenging for independent developers, leading the developer to let their Play Store account expire.
- The developer is particularly disappointed about the removal of Papageno, a project they hope to revisit as a web app.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41727933)

- The author highlights the challenges developers face in keeping apps on the Google Play Store due to Google's stringent update and API compliance requirements.- There is frustration over the constant need for updates and the risk of app removal if requirements are not met, particularly affecting indie developers.- The discussion includes comparisons with other platforms like iOS and Windows, and suggests alternative distribution methods such as F-Droid or web apps, emphasizing the broader impact of app store policies on developers.

## [In Mexico’s underwater caves, a glimpse of artifacts, fossils and human remains](https://www.smithsonianmag.com/travel/divers-in-mexicos-underwater-caves-get-a-glimpse-of-rarely-seen-artifacts-fossils-and-human-remains-180985159/)

- The underwater caves of the Yucatán Peninsula, accessible through cenotes, are significant for their archaeological and paleontological remains, including Maya artifacts and fossils of extinct megafauna.
- These caves offer insights into early human life, the Great American Biotic Interchange, and may help solve mysteries regarding the extinction of large mammals.
- Collaboration between cave explorers and scientists is essential for uncovering the historical and scientific secrets preserved within these caves.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41724747)

- Mexico's underwater caves in the Yucatan peninsula contain artifacts, fossils, and human remains, providing insights into ancient human species and extinct animals like giant ground sloths.
- Cave diving in these cenotes is popular but dangerous without proper training, highlighting a shortage of trained cave explorers in archaeology.
- The development of underwater archaeology and potential use of small cave exploration robots could aid in exploring these hard-to-reach sites, which also hold cultural significance as the Mayans considered cenotes gateways to the underworld.

## [Flyon UI – Tailwind Components Library](https://flyonui.com/)

- FlyonUI is an open-source library providing over 78 free Tailwind CSS components, templates, and examples, designed to streamline development workflows.- It is compatible with popular frameworks such as React and Vue, supports unlimited themes including dark mode, and integrates features from DaisyUI and PrelineJS.- FlyonUI is free to use indefinitely, encourages community contributions, and can be installed via npm with the command `npm i -D flyonui@latest`.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41727621)

- Flyon UI is a Tailwind Components Library known for integrating third-party plugins such as fullcalendar and WYSIWYG (What You See Is What You Get) editors, enhancing its functionality.
- It builds on DaisyUI by incorporating Preline’s JavaScript plugins, providing headless, unstyled components, though there are concerns about Preline's dual licensing.
- Users have noted some drawbacks, including cumbersome HTML inside JSON for configuration, insufficient color contrast, and a need for improved Svelte support, yet it remains praised for its innovative design.

## [Anatomy of an internet argument](https://defenderofthebasic.substack.com/p/anatomy-of-an-internet-argument)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41724881)

- The article highlights that in internet arguments, the most significant impact is often on the uninvolved observers rather than the direct participants.
- It suggests that platforms like Twitter may prioritize engagement through conflict over rational discourse, complicating good faith discussions.
- The discussion underscores that many online debates focus on power dynamics or belief reinforcement rather than truth-seeking.

## [France's oldest treasure hunt has been solved](https://goldenowlhunt.com/)

- The Golden Owl, a treasure from a 31-year-long hunt initiated by the book "Sur la trace de la Chouette d'Or," has been found as of March 10, 2024.
- The hunt, started in 1993 by Max Valentin and Michel Becker, involved solving 11 clues to locate a buried owl statuette.
- The site provides resources such as forums, maps, and theories, along with additional hints and controversies from Michel Becker, to assist treasure hunters.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41728829)

- France's oldest treasure hunt, "On the Trail of the Golden Owl," has been solved, with Michel Becker discovering a rusty iron bird instead of the original bronze owl at the treasure's location.
- The golden owl was intentionally never buried to maintain its cleanliness and to ensure the solver would announce their success.
- Despite controversies surrounding Michel Becker's management since 2021, the hunt persisted, drawing parallels to other famous treasure hunts like Masquerade and the Forrest Fenn treasure.

## [EU: Definition of "potential terrorists" opens door to broad information-sharing](https://www.statewatch.org/news/2024/october/eu-definition-of-potential-terrorists-opens-door-to-broad-information-sharing/)

- Statewatch, an organization monitoring civil liberties in Europe, highlights concerns over the EU's new definition of "potential terrorists," which allows for broader information-sharing.
- This expanded definition could label asylum seekers, refugees, and climate activists as security threats, raising privacy and democratic oversight concerns.
- The EU's increased intelligence-sharing and surveillance efforts may have significant implications for human rights and democracy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41729278)

- The EU's definition of "potential terrorists" is causing concern due to its implications for broad information-sharing, which may affect political dissent and privacy.
- Critics worry that this definition could be misused to target political opponents, raising fears of authoritarianism and the delicate balance between security and freedom.
- The debate draws parallels with the US's no-fly list, questioning the criteria for identifying threats and reflecting broader concerns about government overreach and the erosion of democratic processes.

## [Serving 70B-Scale LLMs Efficiently on Low-Resource Edge Devices [pdf]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.00531)

- The paper "TPI-LLM" addresses the challenge of running large language models (LLMs) on low-resource edge devices, focusing on privacy and efficiency.- TPI-LLM, a tensor parallel inference system, is proposed to enhance performance by keeping data local and using a sliding window memory scheduler, which reduces memory usage and improves latency.- The system shows significant improvements in time-to-first-token and token latency, with the code available online for further exploration.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41730983)

- The paper explores running 70 billion parameter-scale Large Language Models (LLMs) on low-resource edge devices by optimizing memory and bandwidth through innovative scheduling techniques.
- It suggests the possibility of distributed inference across multiple edge devices, though current hardware constraints result in slow processing times (26-29 seconds per token).
- The approach could enable large models to run on smaller GPUs, potentially democratizing access to powerful models, but significant hardware and bandwidth are still required for optimal performance.

## [Gamma radiation is produced in large tropical thunderstorms](https://phys.org/news/2024-10-amount-variety-gamma-large-tropical.html)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41726698)

- Gamma radiation is generated in large tropical thunderstorms, akin to x-rays produced by unrolling scotch tape in a vacuum, due to the movement of charged particles creating strong electric fields.
- Media comparisons, such as likening these electric fields to AA batteries, can be misleading and oversimplify the scientific phenomena.
- The discussion highlights the potential impact of gamma radiation on biodiversity and the difficulties posed by using non-standard units in scientific communication.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Filed: WP Engine Inc. v Automattic Inc. and Matthew Charles Mullenweg [pdf]" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Filed%3A%20WP%20Engine%20Inc.%20v%20Automattic%20Inc.%20and%20Matthew%20Charles%20Mullenweg%20%5Bpdf%5D&subheading=Thursday%2C%20October%203%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
