---
slug: '/2024/10/06'
---

# 2024-10-06

## [Arthur Whitney's one liner sudoku solver (2011)](https://dfns.dyalog.com/n_sudoku.htm)

- The text explains solving Sudoku puzzles using APL and other programming languages, focusing on algorithms and code snippets contributed by various authors.
- It details the structure of a standard Sudoku puzzle and addresses the challenge of filling in missing numbers without repeats in rows, columns, and boxes.
- The text also covers handling non-standard Sudoku shapes and provides examples, solutions, and links to additional resources and demonstrations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41753741)

- Arthur Whitney's one-liner Sudoku solver in the K programming language showcases the language's expressive syntax and efficient array handling.
- K, influenced by APL and Scheme, is praised for its compactness, though some find it difficult to read and maintain compared to more verbose languages.
- The discussion also explores the broader appeal and unique problem-solving approach of array languages, with differing views on their practicality and readability.

## [HPy – A better C API for Python](https://hpyproject.org/)

- HPy is a new C API designed to extend Python, offering zero overhead on CPython and improved performance on alternatives like PyPy.
- It supports universal binaries, provides a migration path for legacy C-API, includes a debug mode, and offers a modern, consistent API.
- HPy is actively developed, with version 0.9.0 recently released, and aims to support major packages like NumPy and Matplotlib.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41755183)

- HPy is designed to enhance Python's C API by simplifying compile and link flags, potentially allowing for version-independent Python bindings and reducing continuous integration/continuous deployment (CI/CD) times.
- Unlike the current C API, HPy supports multiple Python implementations, which could encourage alternative implementations and experimentation within the Python ecosystem.
- The project is attracting interest due to its potential impact on Python's ecosystem, with comparisons to existing tools like PyBind11 and Cython, and discussions on its benefits and concerns about ecosystem fragmentation.

## [So thieves broke into your storage unit again](http://oldvcr.blogspot.com/2024/10/so-thieves-broke-into-your-storage-unit.html)

- The repeated break-ins at storage units emphasize the vulnerability of storing valuable vintage computing items, particularly in climate-controlled units.- Insurance provided by storage facilities may be inadequate, with cumbersome claims processes requiring detailed documentation that may not be readily available.- Lessons learned include selecting secure storage facilities, using disc locks, and avoiding storing irreplaceable items, as well as the importance of improved security measures by the facility.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41754008)

- A break-in at a storage unit underscores significant issues in the storage industry, including inadequate security measures and poor customer service.- Faulty locks make many storage units easily accessible, and insurance often fails to cover losses sufficiently, raising concerns about the effectiveness of such policies.- The cost of storage can surpass the value of stored items unless they hold high sentimental or monetary worth, making long-term storage generally not cost-effective.

## [We need a real GNU/Linux (not Android) smartphone ecosystem](https://old.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/1fx5fq0/we_need_a_real_gnulinux_not_android_smartphone/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41754074)

- The current smartphone ecosystem is fragmented, with various CPUs and uncooperative vendors, unlike the standardized BIOS of x86-based IBM PCs that ensured compatibility.- Efforts like Droidian and Mobian aim to create a true GNU/Linux smartphone ecosystem, but face challenges due to the dominance of iOS and Android and lack of support for alternatives like Sailfish and Ubuntu Touch.- The debate persists on whether to develop a new ecosystem or enhance Android's openness to balance innovation, compatibility, and user freedom in the smartphone market.

## [The Book of Kells, now digitized and available online](https://www.openculture.com/2024/09/the-medieval-masterpiece-the-book-of-kells-is-now-digitized-and-available-online.html)

- The Book of Kells, a famous medieval illuminated manuscript, has been digitized and is accessible online via Trinity College Library.- Created around 806 on the Scottish island of Iona, the manuscript is renowned for its intricate artwork and contains the four gospels.- The digitized version provides high-resolution images, enabling worldwide access, and Trinity College offers a free online course on its history and significance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41757722)

- The Book of Kells, a significant historical artifact, has been digitized and is now accessible online, allowing broader public access.
- Although the Old Library at Trinity College, where the Book of Kells is housed, is under renovation, the book is available in a dedicated building.
- The digitization of the Book of Kells is noteworthy as it enhances accessibility to this ancient manuscript, which is a key piece of cultural heritage.

## [What is the history of the use of "foo" and "bar" in source code examples? (2012)](https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/69788/what-is-the-history-of-the-use-of-foo-and-bar-in-source-code-examples)

- "Foo" and "bar" are commonly used placeholders in programming, originating from the military acronym FUBAR, and have been part of programming culture since early computing days at MIT and DEC.
- These terms are used to represent unknown values in code examples, helping programmers focus on concepts rather than specific content.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41752436)

- The terms "foo" and "bar" used in programming examples originated in the 1960s at MIT's AI Lab, likely derived from the military slang "FUBAR" (Fouled Up Beyond All Recognition).
- Initially used as placeholder function names, "foo" and "bar" serve a similar purpose to "X" and "Y" in algebra, representing generic variables or functions without specific meaning.
- The evolution from "fu" to "foo" may have been influenced by the increasing presence of women in academia, as "foo" was considered less vulgar.

## [ByteDance is abusing the free video downloading service Cobalt for mass scraping](https://twitter.com/uwukko/status/1842538843720868016)

- A significant increase in traffic to the Cobalt API was observed, resembling a Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack.
- The source of the traffic was identified as Bytedance, but the specific videos or original request sources remain unidentified due to bypassed limiters.
- Despite the inability to pinpoint exact sources, a discernible pattern in the traffic was noted.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41756209)

- ByteDance is accused of using the free video downloading service Cobalt for large-scale data scraping, potentially linked to their AI video generation projects.
- The activity might be associated with BytePlus, ByteDance's cloud service, which could be used by other companies, though the high cost and sales contact requirement suggest otherwise.
- The situation underscores the tension between data scraping practices and the terms of use set by service providers, as Cobalt criticizes ByteDance for bypassing protections while doing the same with YouTube.

## [WiFi4EU initiative provides free Wi-Fi in public spaces across Europe](https://hadea.ec.europa.eu/programmes/connecting-europe-facility/wifi4eu/download-wifi4eu-app_en)

- The WiFi4EU app provides access to free Wi-Fi in public spaces across Europe, connecting users to over 93,000 hotspots.
- The app features a user-friendly map for easy hotspot location and offers high-speed internet without data charges or tracking.
- Available for download on the App Store and Google Play, with more information accessible via the WiFi4EU portal or the European Commission's website.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41756842)

- The WiFi4EU initiative provides free Wi-Fi in public spaces throughout Europe, but it does not incorporate existing volunteer-run networks like Germany's Freifunk.
- Municipalities need to apply for funding to establish new hotspots, though applications are currently closed, leading to criticisms of inefficiency and potential corruption.
- Despite the growth of 5G, public Wi-Fi is still important in regions with limited mobile coverage or costly data plans, aiming to offer a consistent Wi-Fi experience across the EU.

## [Wi-Fi Goes Long Range on New WiLo Standard](https://spectrum.ieee.org/wi-fi-lora-hybrid)

- The new WiLo (Wi-Fi Long Range) standard is designed to extend the range of Wi-Fi connectivity, making it suitable for broader applications.
- This advancement is particularly beneficial for agricultural sensor networks and smart cities, where long-range connectivity is crucial for efficient data transmission.
- The introduction of WiLo represents a significant step forward in wireless technology, potentially transforming how remote and urban areas manage connectivity and data collection.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41756023)

- The new Wi-Fi WiLo standard allows Wi-Fi signals to be converted into LoRa waveforms, enabling long-range communication without needing hardware changes.
- This advancement could significantly benefit IoT (Internet of Things) applications by utilizing existing Wi-Fi devices for extended communication ranges.
- However, there are concerns about increased power consumption, air congestion, and low data throughput, particularly in densely populated regions.

## [Gokapi: Lightweight selfhosted Firefox Send alternative with AWS S3 support](https://github.com/Forceu/Gokapi)

- Gokapi is a lightweight file-sharing server designed for Bare Metal and Docker environments, allowing only administrators to upload files, with expiration based on downloads or time.
- It offers features like deduplication, an API, support for AWS S3 and Backblaze B2, and customizable HTML/CSS, along with encryption options, including end-to-end encryption.
- The server is easy to install, comes with comprehensive documentation, and is licensed under AGPL3, encouraging contributions and donations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41754628)

- Gokapi is introduced as a lightweight, self-hosted alternative to Firefox Send, with support for AWS S3, a cloud storage service.
- Discussions highlight Thunderbird's attempts to revive Firefox Send with encryption and the challenges of managing AWS S3 costs, emphasizing the need for budget alerts to avoid unexpected expenses.
- Users propose features such as guest uploads with stricter policies and explore alternatives like Cloudflare workers and Tailscale for enhanced functionality.

## [The importance of local development](https://fastpaced.com/articles/local-development/)

- Local development is essential for efficient software creation, offering faster iteration, improved debugging, and consistency between local and production environments.
- A good developer experience (DX) enhances productivity, reduces cognitive load, and increases developer satisfaction, which can lead to higher code quality and talent retention.
- Tools such as Draft, Skaffold, Tilt, or Garden facilitate the creation of effective local development environments, crucial for avoiding DX-debt, especially in larger teams.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41756277)

- Local development environments are essential for productivity but can be difficult to maintain uniformly across teams.
- Cloud-based environments provide easy resets, yet modern laptops often offer superior performance.
- The decision between local and cloud environments hinges on balancing speed, reliability, and the ability to mirror production conditions.

## [Router Security](https://routersecurity.org/)

- The Router Security Website by Michael Horowitz offers a detailed guide on improving router security through configuration changes and selecting secure routers.- Key recommendations include changing default passwords, disabling features like WPS (Wi-Fi Protected Setup) and UPnP (Universal Plug and Play), and keeping firmware updated.- The site is ad-free, prioritizes user privacy, and provides resources and tests for ensuring router safety, emphasizing the importance of ongoing maintenance and detecting hacked routers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41752327)

- The debate on router security focuses on whether disabling ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol) and IPv6 is necessary, with many suggesting that modern routers with firewalls can manage these safely.
- IPv6 is gaining importance as ISPs (Internet Service Providers) adopt address-conserving methods like CGNAT (Carrier-Grade Network Address Translation), making its use more relevant.
- The consensus emphasizes maintaining updated routers and proper firewall configurations over disabling ICMP or IPv6, as disabling ICMP can impede network diagnostics and Path MTU (Maximum Transmission Unit) discovery.

## [Students who use AI as a crutch don't learn anything](https://english.elpais.com/technology/2024-10-03/ethan-mollick-analyst-students-who-use-ai-as-a-crutch-dont-learn-anything.html)

- Ethan Mollick, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania, has released a book titled "Co-Intelligence: Living and Working with AI," focusing on the effective integration of AI into daily life.
- Mollick emphasizes the strategic use of AI as a co-intelligence tool, enhancing human capabilities rather than serving as a crutch that could impede learning.
- The book discusses AI's potential in education, advocating for active learning and personalized tutoring, while addressing misconceptions and encouraging a balanced understanding of AI's possibilities and limitations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41757010)

- The use of AI tools by students may lead to a lack of understanding of fundamental concepts, as they might rely on AI to solve problems without engaging in necessary practice.
- There is an ongoing debate about whether AI enhances or obstructs learning, with opinions divided on its role in education.
- While AI can offer innovative ways to interact with educational material, there is concern about the potential negative impact of becoming overly dependent on these technologies.

## [We're excited about our new roundabout](https://wsdotblog.blogspot.com/2024/10/in-case-you-cant-tell-were-really.html)

- WSDOT has introduced a new compact roundabout on SR 203, featuring a unique design with a long, skinny island and a circular island separated by a pass-through lane.
- The roundabout is designed to slow traffic, improve flow, and reduce crash risks while accommodating large vehicles and fitting the existing space.
- Despite its unique design, the roundabout has already enhanced safety by reducing high-speed approaches and crash risks, and WSDOT encourages drivers to adapt to it for improved safety and traffic flow.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41754084)

- Roundabouts are gaining popularity in the US, even in suburban areas, due to their efficiency and safety advantages over traditional 4-way stops.
- They are preferred by drivers from countries like Ireland and Canada for reducing conflict risk and improving traffic flow.
- Despite some poorly designed roundabouts causing confusion, they generally provide better traffic throughput and safety compared to traditional intersections.

## [When Earth Had Rings](https://nautil.us/when-earth-had-rings-920177/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41756346)

- The article explores the concept of Earth's ancient rings, leading to debates about the accuracy of their modern depictions and the potential view from Earth.
- The discussion transitions to contemporary issues, such as space debris and satellite constellations, and their effects on astrophotography and the possibility of future rings.
- It also examines the trade-offs between low Earth orbit satellites and geostationary satellites, considering the implications of space debris on future space exploration.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Arthur Whitney's one liner sudoku solver (2011)" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Arthur%20Whitney's%20one%20liner%20sudoku%20solver%20(2011)&subheading=Sunday%2C%20October%206%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
