---
slug: '/2024/10/08'
---

# 2024-10-08

## [Nobel Prize in Physics awarded to John Hopfield and Geoffrey Hinton [pdf]](https://www.nobelprize.org/uploads/2024/09/advanced-physicsprize2024.pdf)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41775463)

- The Nobel Prize in Physics was awarded to John Hopfield and Geoffrey Hinton for their contributions to neural networks and machine learning, which has sparked surprise and debate.
- Critics argue that their work does not fit traditional physics, suggesting either a scarcity of groundbreaking physics discoveries or an attempt to leverage AI's current popularity.
- This decision has prompted discussions about the relevance of existing Nobel categories and the potential need for a separate prize dedicated to computer science.

## [Differential Transformer](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.05258)

- The Differential Transformer introduces a novel attention mechanism that enhances focus on relevant context while minimizing noise, using a differential attention approach that subtracts two softmax attention maps to encourage sparse attention patterns.
- Experimental results indicate that the Diff Transformer surpasses traditional Transformers in language modeling, particularly excelling in long-context modeling, key information retrieval, and reducing hallucinations, thereby improving accuracy and robustness in in-context learning.
- This development positions the Diff Transformer as a promising architecture for advancing large language models, with potential applications in computation and language, as well as machine learning.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41776324)

- Differential Transformer introduces an innovative architecture using differential attention, which reduces noise by subtracting two softmax attention functions, allowing for a smaller model size with performance comparable to larger transformers.- The 6.8 billion parameter DIFF Transformer achieves similar validation loss to an 11 billion parameter Transformer, using only 62.2% of the parameters, by employing half the number of attention heads per layer.- This architecture shows potential in reducing hallucinations in tasks such as question answering and text summarization, though it necessitates retraining models to adopt the new attention mechanism.

## [uBlock Origin CNAME uncloaking now supports filtering by IP address](https://github.com/gorhill/uBlock/commit/6acf97bf51)

- The update enhances uBlock's DNS resolution code, improving its ability to filter by CNAME (Canonical Name) and IP address.
- A new feature allows the `ipaddress=` option to block root documents if the IP is extracted before the first request, though it uses the first IP from the DNS list, which may differ from the browser's choice.
- The commit involves changes across multiple files, with 153 lines added and 96 lines removed, indicating a significant code update.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41770921)

- uBlock Origin has updated its CNAME uncloaking feature to include IP address filtering, which was previously exclusive to Firefox.
- This update enhances existing functionality by allowing IP-based blocking before requests are made, though it may face challenges with domains having multiple IPs.
- Ongoing discussions focus on browser support for uBlock Origin, particularly with Chrome's Manifest V3 changes, prompting users to explore alternatives like Firefox and Brave for better ad-blocking capabilities.

## [Kotlin Money](https://blog.eriksen.com.br/en/introducing-kotlin-money)

- Kotlin Money is a new library designed for precise monetary calculations and allocations, addressing common issues like rounding errors in financial operations.
- The library supports a wide range of currencies, including 306 traditional currencies and 2283 cryptocurrencies, and is set to expand for Android development and serialization.
- It ensures accurate distribution of amounts, preventing financial discrepancies such as losses or overcharges, and supports various mathematical and percentage operations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41776878)

- Kotlin Money is a library created to simplify monetary calculations in the Kotlin programming language, addressing common issues such as rounding in financial operations.
- The library is inspired by challenges encountered at N26 Brasil and supports currency conversions and rounding rules, similar to Java's JSR 354 and other money libraries.
- It utilizes BigDecimal for precise calculations and offers a user-friendly API, emphasizing the importance of accurate monetary handling in programming.

## [An illustrated proof of the CAP theorem (2018)](https://mwhittaker.github.io/blog/an_illustrated_proof_of_the_cap_theorem/)

- The CAP Theorem in distributed systems posits that a system can only achieve two out of three properties: Consistency, Availability, and Partition Tolerance.- Consistency ensures that any read after a write returns the latest value, Availability guarantees responses from non-failing nodes, and Partition Tolerance allows operation despite network message losses.- The theorem, proven by Gilbert and Lynch, demonstrates that a system cannot maintain all three properties simultaneously, as network partitions can lead to inconsistencies.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41772624)

- The CAP theorem explains that in distributed systems, only two of the three properties—Consistency, Availability, and Partition Tolerance—can be achieved simultaneously.- The PACELC theorem builds on CAP by stating that in the absence of partitions, a choice must be made between Latency and Consistency.- Systems like Google Spanner use advanced protocols and precise clocks to maintain consistency, illustrating the trade-offs in system design.

## [Video Surveillance with YOLO+llava](https://github.com/PsyChip/machina)

- MACHINA CCTV Viewer is a work-in-progress project utilizing LLAVA YOLO 11 and OpenCV for real-time object tagging from high-resolution RTSP streams.
- The system processes frames with a 20ms interference time using a YOLO 11 small model on a GTX 1060, with a mechanism to handle stream delays and idle detection.
- The project aims to develop a headless security system leveraging modern vision and object detection models, inviting contributions from the community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41772551)

- The GitHub project "Video Surveillance with YOLO+llava" by psychip is gaining traction for its application in DIY security and AI, sparking discussions on alternative surveillance solutions like Frigate NVR, Scrypted, and Viseron.- Frigate NVR is noted for its reliability, though it has a steep learning curve, and hardware recommendations include using a Geforce GTX 1060 or Coral USB Accelerator for better processing efficiency.- The project also raises privacy concerns and emphasizes the responsible use of surveillance technology, with debates on using YOLO with llava for detailed object descriptions and alternatives like Florence-2 and MobileNetV3.

## [Is the attack helicopter dead?](https://hushkit.net/2024/10/07/is-the-attack-helicopter-dead/)

- The relevance of attack helicopters is being questioned in the context of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, where small drones have effectively targeted armored units.
- The conflict has exposed vulnerabilities in both helicopters and heavy armor, with precision artillery and drones posing significant threats.
- The future of attack helicopters may hinge on integrating advanced intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance systems, and developing countermeasures against drones and missiles, highlighting the growing importance of intelligence and communications in modern warfare.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41769971)

- The debate centers on whether attack helicopters remain relevant in modern warfare, given the rise of drones and advanced technology.
- Proponents argue for helicopters' agility and effectiveness in specific combat scenarios, while critics point to cheaper, unmanned alternatives.
- This discussion is part of a broader trend of assessing costly military systems against more affordable options, particularly in near-peer conflicts.

## [John Hopfield and Geoff Hinton Win Physics Nobel Prize [pdf]](https://www.nobelprize.org/uploads/2024/10/press-physicsprize2024.pdf)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41775449)

## [Sam Altman Goes Full Emperor](https://nonzero.substack.com/p/sam-altman-goes-full-emperor)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41770249)

- The discussion centers on Sam Altman, CEO of OpenAI, and his ambitious projects, such as Worldcoin, which elicit mixed reactions regarding their potential risks and necessity for progress.
- The conversation includes philosophical debates on ambition, referencing Nietzsche and modern critiques, highlighting differing perspectives on the role of ambition in technological advancement.
- There is a debate about the political influence of tech companies on societal issues, alongside concerns about paywalled content affecting the accessibility and inclusivity of community discussions.

## [Rust is rolling off the Volvo assembly line](https://tweedegolf.nl/en/blog/137/rust-is-rolling-off-the-volvo-assembly-line)

- Volvo has integrated the Rust programming language into its assembly line, specifically for the low-power processor ECU in electric cars, due to its reliability and reduced memory-related bugs compared to C and C++.- Julius Gustavsson, a software architect at Volvo, has played a key role in this integration since 2019, leading to successful outcomes and high-quality products.- Despite initial challenges, Volvo plans to expand Rust's use, viewing it as a valuable asset for projects requiring strict reliability, although improvements in tooling are still needed.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41771272)

- Volvo has successfully implemented the Rust programming language in production, transitioning from concept to production within a few years, highlighting its growing adoption in the automotive industry.
- Ferrocene provides a certified Rust toolchain, compliant with ISO 26262 standards, which is crucial for safety-critical automotive systems.
- Rust is favored for its safety features compared to C/C++, with regular stable updates every six weeks, although there is ongoing debate about the suitability of other languages like Zig or Ada for similar applications.

## [The costs of the i386 to x86-64 upgrade](https://blogsystem5.substack.com/p/x86-64-programming-models)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41773559)

- The i386 to x86-64 upgrade discussion emphasizes the complexities in programming models and data types across various operating systems, noting that Windows did not adopt the LP64 model, unlike Linux and FreeBSD.- The conversation suggests using specific-sized types like int32_t in C for cross-platform compatibility, considering historical context and performance.- The debate also addresses the persistence of traditional data types and challenges related to using AI-generated images in articles.

## [How private intelligence companies became the new spymasters](https://engelsbergideas.com/essays/private-intelligence/)

- Private intelligence companies are increasingly competing with state agencies, transforming espionage into a tech-driven arms race by leveraging vast digital data.
- Unlike state agencies, these firms operate openly, sharing findings and fostering a community of learning, but face legal and ethical challenges in data collection.
- The rise of private intelligence underscores the need for collaboration between governments and the private sector to protect national interests, reshaping the future of espionage.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41770383)

- Private intelligence companies are emerging as new leaders in intelligence, providing more accountability compared to state agencies that sometimes operate beyond legal limits.
- The software industry and other sectors face vulnerabilities due to inadequate vetting, which are exploited by hackers and intelligence agencies.
- Companies like Palantir and OpenAI are assuming roles traditionally held by government agencies, driven by better compensation and work culture, raising concerns about the balance of power between private and state entities.

## [Smart TVs are like "a digital Trojan Horse" in people's homes](https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2024/10/streaming-industry-has-unprecedented-surveillance-manipulation-capabilities/)

- The Center for Digital Democracy (CDD) has urged the FTC (Federal Trade Commission) and FCC (Federal Communications Commission) to investigate the data collection practices of the connected TV industry, describing smart TVs as "digital Trojan Horses" due to their invasive tracking.
- The report raises privacy concerns, emphasizing that streaming services and devices gather sensitive data, which could affect consumer privacy and influence political campaigns.
- The CDD calls for stronger regulations to protect consumers, especially minority communities, from discriminatory data practices and suggests antitrust investigations into major industry players.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41770941)

- Smart TVs are criticized for potentially recording audio and customizing ads using viewer data, leading to privacy concerns.
- Users frustrated by the lack of non-smart TVs sometimes choose large monitors or avoid connecting smart TVs to Wi-Fi, though connections like Amazon Sidewalk can still occur.
- Alternatives such as Nvidia Shield or using a computer for streaming are recommended for enhanced privacy, yet the convenience of smart TVs often results in users connecting them, perpetuating privacy issues.

## [FTX creditors will make money on bankruptcy](https://www.cnbc.com/2024/10/07/ftx-bankruptcy-judge-approves-more-than-14-billion-payback-plan.html)

- A Delaware bankruptcy judge has approved FTX's reorganization plan, which allows creditors to receive $1.19 for every dollar claimed, indicating a surplus in collected funds.
- FTX has gathered between $14.7 billion and $16.5 billion to distribute, surpassing the $11.2 billion owed, ensuring that 98% of creditors will profit.
- The funds were raised through asset sales, including a stake in AI startup Anthropic, and the payout plan's start date will be announced later.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41773212)

- FTX creditors are expected to receive 100% of their bankruptcy claims plus interest, but this is based on the value of cryptocurrencies at the time of FTX's collapse in 2022, not their current higher values.
- Critics argue that the media is portraying this as a positive outcome, despite creditors not receiving the full value of their original cryptocurrency holdings.
- Some speculate that this narrative is intended to enhance the reputations of those associated with FTX, including its founder, Sam Bankman-Fried (SBF).

## [Is AWS S3 having an outage?](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41770111)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41770111)

- AWS S3 faced an outage, primarily affecting the us-east-2 region, with users encountering internal server errors.
- Despite AWS's status page indicating normal operations, Downdetector showed a significant increase in outage reports, with additional issues noted in CloudFront, Elastic Beanstalk, and Lambda.
- The incident highlighted challenges with time zone inconsistencies in AWS status updates, although the situation eventually stabilized.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Nobel Prize in Physics awarded to John Hopfield and Geoffrey Hinton [pdf]" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Nobel%20Prize%20in%20Physics%20awarded%20to%20John%20Hopfield%20and%20Geoffrey%20Hinton%20%5Bpdf%5D&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20October%208%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
