---
slug: '/2024/10/10'
---

# 2024-10-10

## [Internet Archive: Security breach alert](https://www.theverge.com/2024/10/9/24266419/internet-archive-ddos-attack-pop-up-message)

- The Internet Archive experienced a security breach, compromising information for 31 million accounts, including email addresses and other data.
- The breach was confirmed by Have I Been Pwned? (HIBP), with 54% of the affected accounts already present in its database from previous incidents.
- In addition to the breach, the Internet Archive faced a Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack, leading to service disruptions, and is now working on upgrading its security measures.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41792500)

- The Internet Archive suffered a security breach, exposing 31 million records, including users' email addresses, which were unknowingly public in metadata.- This incident highlights concerns about email privacy, with discussions on whether email addresses should be treated as private information like phone numbers or home addresses.- The breach is now listed in the Have I Been Pwned database, and users are advised to use unique email addresses for each service and consider email aliasing for enhanced privacy and spam reduction.

## [Helping wikis move away from Fandom](https://weirdgloop.org/blog/why-were-helping-more-wikis-move-away-from-fandom)

- Weird Gloop is now hosting the official League of Legends Wiki, transitioning it from Fandom to foster better community-driven and developer-friendly wikis.
- This move addresses issues with Fandom, such as retaining outdated wiki versions, and benefits from Google's increased support for independent wikis, which helps regain traffic.
- The transition can potentially double contributors and allow for custom technical projects, with Weird Gloop providing guidance for those interested in moving their wikis from Fandom.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41797719)

- Weird Gloop is assisting wikis in transitioning away from Fandom, which is criticized for intrusive ads and poor user experience.- The Minecraft Wiki's move to Weird Gloop exemplifies a successful transition to a more cost-effective and user-friendly platform.- This shift reflects a broader trend of communities seeking alternatives to Fandom, which is seen as prioritizing profit over user experience.

## [Why Gov.uk's Exit this Page component doesn't use the Escape key](https://beeps.website/blog/2024-10-09-why-govuk-exit-this-page-doesnt-use-escape/)

- GOV.UK's "Exit this Page" component avoids using the Escape key due to its potential to stop page loading and its use in other operating system functions.- The Shift key is used instead for JavaScript redirection, as it provides more consistent functionality despite its limitations.- The component redirects users to BBC Weather to ensure a neutral, content-rich page, aiding users in quickly leaving a page in potentially dangerous situations, such as domestic abuse.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41793597)

- Gov.uk's "Exit this Page" feature avoids using the Escape key to prevent stopping page loading, opting for pressing Shift three times instead.
- Critics argue the feature is over-engineered and not user-friendly, suggesting simpler alternatives like teaching users to close tabs with keyboard shortcuts.
- The feature is intended for high-stress situations, such as domestic abuse, to quickly hide browsing activity, but its effectiveness and discoverability are under scrutiny.

## [Indian entrepreneur, industrialist, and philanthropist, Ratan Tata, dead at 86](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ratan_Tata)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41795218)

## [WASM Is the New CGI](https://roborooter.com/post/wasm-is-the-new-cgi/)

- WebAssembly (Wasm) is revolutionizing web applications by offering high-performance and easily maintainable interactive websites, surpassing the traditional CGI model.
- Wasm enables code execution in both browsers and servers, providing a lightweight isolation model for untrusted code and supporting multiple programming languages.
- Despite some tradeoffs, such as limited threading and JIT (Just-In-Time) compilation, Wasm's performance and security advantages make it a promising technology for future web development, potentially transforming web development constraints and enabling new possibilities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41795561)

- WebAssembly (WASM) is being compared to older technologies like Java Applets and Flash, but it offers enhanced security, efficiency, and operates as an open standard.- Unlike its predecessors, WASM runs within the browser's sandbox, allowing it to execute code in various languages safely and efficiently, not limited to JavaScript.- WASM's versatility and security make it a promising technology for both client and server-side applications, with potential for local-first applications that reduce server dependency by running primarily in the user's browser.

## [You Don’t Know Jack about Bandwidth](https://cacm.acm.org/practice/you-dont-know-jack-about-bandwidth/)

- Internet Service Providers (ISPs) facing customer dissatisfaction due to poor Internet performance can address the issue of high latency, often caused by outdated router software, rather than insufficient bandwidth.- The problem, known as bufferbloat, can be mitigated using modern software solutions like LibreQoS, developed by the creators of fq_codel and CAKE, which enhance data flow and reduce delays.- Implementing such software allows ISPs to optimize their current infrastructure, improving service quality and customer satisfaction without the need for additional bandwidth investment.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41793658)

- The discussion on ACM.org clarifies the common confusion between bandwidth and latency, especially in remote work, where video call issues are often wrongly attributed to low bandwidth.
- Platforms like Zoom require minimal bandwidth (e.g., 3 Mbps for 1080p video), but latency is the real factor affecting connection quality, as shared by users experiencing internet performance issues.
- The conversation also explores challenges faced by Internet Service Providers (ISPs) in addressing latency issues and suggests potential solutions like OpenWrt and LibreQoS to manage network congestion and enhance user experience.

## [Software Engineer Pay Heatmap Across the US](https://levels.fyi/heatmap)

- An interactive heatmap is available, showcasing software engineer salary ranges across the U.S., categorized by Designated Market Area (DMA) regions.
- The heatmap provides insights into salary percentiles, total compensation details, and highlights top-paying companies, with pay ranging from $50,000 to over $300,000.
- Users are encouraged to provide feedback on additional features or data they would like to see included in the heatmap.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41792055)

- A software engineer pay heatmap reveals that salaries in NYC are notably lower compared to Western Washington and the Bay Area, sparking discussions on regional salary disparities.
- Criticisms arise regarding the map's coarse granularity, which groups diverse areas together, and the dataset's accuracy due to limited data and potential biases.
- Suggestions for improvement include excluding FAANG (Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix, Google) companies and incorporating cost of living adjustments for a more precise representation.

## [Tenno – Markdown and JavaScript = a hybrid of Word and Excel](https://tenno.app)

- Tenno is a web application designed for creating Markdown documents with computational cells, combining features of Word and Excel for "literate programming."
- The app is in its early stages and is seeking user feedback on potential features, with a Docs and examples page available to demonstrate its capabilities.
- Tenno aims to simplify data analysis and visualization, allowing for function definitions, multi-dimensional plotting, and dashboard creation by integrating data from APIs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41798477)

- Tenno is a web application that integrates Markdown and JavaScript, enabling users to create documents with computational cells, akin to a blend of Word and Excel.- It targets "literate programming" to streamline complex data analysis and visualization, and is currently in its early development phase, seeking user feedback for enhancements.- The app is compared to Jupyter and Org mode, emphasizing user-friendliness and the ability to share with non-technical users, with potential improvements in WYSIWYG functionality, table support, and local execution.

## [My negative views on Rust (2023)](https://chrisdone.com/posts/rust/)

- The author acknowledges Rust's strengths, such as macros, type-classes, and pattern matching, but expresses concerns about its complexity and certain features like "unsafe" and "panic" that can lead to confusing compile errors.
- Rust's focus on efficient memory representation and the lack of a built-in asynchronous runtime are highlighted as challenges, with the author skeptical about its use as a general-purpose language.
- Despite Rust's excellent tooling, the author is cautious about investing in it for personal projects, though they might consider it for single-threaded C replacements.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41791773)

- The discussion centers on Rust's complexity, with some comparing it to C++ and others emphasizing its stability and safety features.- Key concerns include Rust's panic handling, asynchronous programming challenges, and the use of "unsafe" code, which can bypass Rust's safety guarantees.- Despite criticisms, Rust is valued for its memory safety and is particularly beneficial in applications like game development, though it is noted for having a steep learning curve.

## [DeskPad – A virtual monitor for screen sharing](https://github.com/Stengo/DeskPad)

- DeskPad is a virtual monitor application designed for seamless full-screen screen sharing, creating a mirrored display within its app window for easy sharing.
- Installation options include downloading the latest release or using Homebrew, a package manager for macOS, with the command 'brew install deskpad'.
- DeskPad operates like a physical monitor, allowing users to adjust display resolution in system preferences, and highlights its title bar in blue when the cursor moves to the virtual display.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41800602)

- DeskPad is a virtual monitor tool for MacOS X that facilitates screen sharing by allowing users to share specific areas of their screen, particularly beneficial for large or ultrawide monitors.
- It is praised for its convenience, especially for users who need to share screens while traveling or using a single monitor setup.
- While some users have suggested the addition of screen recording indicators, the tool is generally regarded as a valuable solution for screen sharing needs.

## [Mozilla fixes Firefox zero-day actively exploited in attacks](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/mozilla-fixes-firefox-zero-day-actively-exploited-in-attacks/)

- Mozilla has issued an emergency update for Firefox to address a critical use-after-free vulnerability, identified as CVE-2024-9680, which is currently being exploited.- The vulnerability is located in Animation timelines and allows attackers to execute code using freed memory, posing a significant security risk.- Users are strongly advised to update to Firefox 131.0.2, Firefox ESR 115.16.1, or Firefox ESR 128.3.1 to protect against potential attacks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41796030)

- Mozilla has addressed a zero-day vulnerability in Firefox that was actively being exploited, which allowed attackers to execute code through a use-after-free flaw in Animation timelines.- The vulnerability impacted the latest Firefox versions, including the extended support releases (ESR), prompting users to update to the latest version for protection.- This patch highlights the importance of regularly updating software to safeguard against potential security threats.

## [How to make Product give a shit about your architecture proposal](https://gieseanw.wordpress.com/2024/10/09/how-to-make-product-give-a-shit-about-your-architecture-proposal/)

- When proposing architecture changes, present them as a comprehensive "platinum package" to help product teams understand the complexity and negotiate on scope and time.
- Focus on Return on Investment (ROI) and potential risks when suggesting new ideas, ensuring alignment with team goals and priorities.
- Use available time to work on improvements that enhance quality and deliver valuable solutions, emphasizing effective negotiation and prioritization.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41794566)

## [Geoffrey Hinton says he's proud Ilya Sutskever 'fired Sam Altman'](https://techcrunch.com/2024/10/09/after-winning-nobel-for-foundational-ai-work-geoffrey-hinton-says-hes-proud-ilya-sutskever-fired-sam-altman/)

- Geoffrey Hinton, a prominent figure in artificial intelligence, was awarded a Nobel Prize for his contributions to artificial neural networks.
- In his acceptance speech, Hinton acknowledged Ilya Sutskever, his former student, for influencing the dismissal of OpenAI's CEO, Sam Altman, in 2023, which he considered a win for AI safety.
- Despite the initial firing, Sam Altman eventually regained more control over OpenAI, indicating ongoing dynamics in the leadership of AI organizations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41792179)

- Geoffrey Hinton's comment about Ilya Sutskever firing Sam Altman during his Nobel acceptance speech has sparked debate on Hacker News regarding the news's relevance and presentation.
- The discussion reflects differing opinions, with some users labeling the article as sensationalist, while others value the insight into the complexities of moderating controversial topics.

## [Press Conference: Professor Geoffrey Hinton, Nobel Prize in Physics 2024 [video]](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H7DgMFqrON0)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41791692)

- A press conference video of Professor Geoffrey Hinton, a Nobel Prize winner in Physics 2024, was shared on YouTube, leading to discussions about the balance between sensationalism and substantial content.
- The article's headline was altered to reduce sensationalism, prompting debate on intellectual curiosity versus censorship.
- Conversations also included Hinton's contributions to neural networks and the influence of tech leaders like Sam Altman and Elon Musk.

## [Command Line Tools I Like (2022)](https://rwblickhan.org/newsletters/command-line-tools-i-like-2022/)

- The post highlights modern command line tools, many written in Rust, that enhance efficiency and usability for developers, particularly iOS developers.
- Featured tools include Neovim for advanced text editing, fzf for fuzzy searching, bat for syntax-highlighted file viewing, and exa for colorful directory listing.
- Other notable tools are ripgrep for fast file content searching, fd for filename searching, delta for improved git diff visualization, tldr for concise command help, zoxide for smarter directory navigation, and HTTPie for user-friendly HTTP requests.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41791708)

- Terminal Trove provides a collection of command line tools with straightforward installation guides, catering to various user needs.- Popular tools discussed include Pillager for security checks, Eternal Terminal for stable connections, and jq for JSON querying, with alternatives like jless and eza also mentioned.- Users expressed concerns about installation dependencies and the practicality of using non-standard command line interface (CLI) tools across different systems.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Internet Archive: Security breach alert" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Internet%20Archive%3A%20Security%20breach%20alert&subheading=Thursday%2C%20October%2010%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
