---
slug: '/2024/10/14'
---

# 2024-10-14

## [Huly – Open-source project management platform](https://github.com/hcengineering/platform)

- Huly Platform is a comprehensive framework designed to accelerate the development of business applications, including CRM, HRM, and ATS systems.
- The platform supports self-hosting using Docker and requires Node.js, Docker, and Docker Compose for setup, with Microsoft's Rush facilitating installation.
- It supports development on amd64 and arm64 architectures for Linux and macOS, and includes unit and UI tests, though local installations lack email functionalities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41833902)

- Huly is an open-source project management platform designed to replace tools like Linear, Jira, Slack, and Notion, but requires running multiple servers and services for self-hosting.
- The platform's complexity and need for various system expertise may deter users, particularly smaller organizations or those lacking dedicated IT resources.
- Despite the challenges, Huly's open-source nature and potential cost savings compared to Software as a Service (SaaS) solutions make it an attractive option for some users.

## [CRLF is obsolete and should be abolished](https://fossil-scm.org/home/ext/crlf-harmful.md)

- CRLF (Carriage Return Line Feed) line endings are considered outdated, originating from mechanical teletypes, and are seen as unnecessary in modern systems where a single NL (New Line, U+000a) is preferred.
- Although a proposal to eliminate CRLF was withdrawn, the initiative highlighted and resolved various software issues, emphasizing the need for systems to adapt to using only NL.
- The post advocates for the cessation of CRLF usage, encouraging developers to update software that still requires CR before NL and to adopt the term "newline" for U+000a.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41830717)

- CRLF (Carriage Return Line Feed) is considered outdated by some, but updating legacy protocols like HTTP, SMTP, and CSV to use only NL (New Line) could lead to bugs.- While newer protocols might avoid using CRLF, changing existing ones is not deemed advantageous due to potential compatibility issues.- The discussion underscores the tension between simplifying protocols and ensuring adherence to standards to prevent security vulnerabilities.

## [Busy Status Bar from Flipper Devices](https://busy.bar/?hn)

- The Busy Status Bar is a productivity tool featuring an LED pixel screen for displaying custom busy messages and includes a Pomodoro timer.- It is open-source and developer-friendly, supporting multiple programming languages like Python, JavaScript, and Go, and integrates with popular apps such as Zoom and Discord.- Designed by Flipper Devices Inc., it offers cloud control via API and MQTT, supports IoT integrations, and is compatible with Windows, macOS, and Linux.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41838337)

- Flipper Devices' Busy Status Bar is an upcoming product, confirmed by CEO Pavel Zhovner, currently in development and not yet officially announced.
- The device aims to indicate user status and may integrate with smart home protocols, sparking debates on its necessity and pricing.
- While some view it as a niche, hacker-friendly gadget, others appreciate its design and potential functionality, leading to discussions on its practicality and target audience.

## [Python client for the $20 Colmi R02 smart ring](https://tahnok.github.io/colmi_r02_client/colmi_r02_client.html)

- Colmi R02 Client is an open-source Python tool designed for accessing data from Colmi R02 Smart Rings, which are budget-friendly fitness wearables.
- The tool operates offline, enabling users to interact with the smart ring via Bluetooth for features like real-time heart rate monitoring and step logging.
- Users can install the client using pipx, a Python package manager, and utilize various commands for data retrieval and device settings through Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) communication.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41833200)

- A Python client has been developed for the Colmi R02 smart ring, enabling users to access data without needing a subscription.
- The Colmi R02 is gaining attention on platforms like GitHub and Hacker News for its affordability and potential for hacking and reverse engineering, compared to pricier options like the Oura ring.
- Users express concerns about subscription models and device accuracy, with interest in alternatives that offer open-source compatibility and offline functionality.

## [Zero-latency SQLite storage in every Durable Object](https://simonwillison.net/2024/Oct/13/zero-latency-sqlite-storage-in-every-durable-object/)

- Cloudflare's Durable Object platform now incorporates a full relational system using SQLite, optimizing it for real-time collaborative applications by colocating application logic with data for enhanced performance.
- The platform operates each Durable Object on a single thread, with the ability to create more objects to manage increased traffic, exemplified by a flight booking system assigning each flight a dedicated Durable Object with its own SQLite database.
- A Storage Relay Service ensures durability by streaming Write-Ahead Logging (WAL) entries to object storage and replicating writes across data centers, with a JavaScript API designed for fast, single-threaded operations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41832547)

- Zero-latency SQLite storage in Durable Objects offers efficient data handling with features like auto-batching writes and no read transactions, but is limited to 128MB RAM per runtime instance.
- Durable Objects are globally unique, ensuring consistency by operating on a single instance, making them suitable for multiplayer applications but potentially unsuitable for high-traffic or complex analysis needs.
- Key concerns include handling schema migrations and the reliance on a single cloud provider, with additional features like auto RPC for communication and hibernating Websockets without cost.

## [Counterintuitive Properties of High Dimensional Space (2018)](https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~jrs/highd/)

- In higher dimensions, objects like cubes and spheres exhibit properties that defy our three-dimensional intuition, such as the inner sphere's radius extending beyond the cube.
- The volume of a unit 𝑑-sphere decreases with increasing dimensions, and most of the sphere's surface area is concentrated near the equator.
- The "kissing number," or the maximum number of spheres that can touch another without overlapping, is precisely known in only a few dimensions, with solutions in eight and twenty-four dimensions using special lattice structures.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41831617)

- High-dimensional spaces exhibit counterintuitive properties, such as the decreasing volume of a unit sphere as dimensions increase, which challenges our understanding due to differing units across dimensions.
- In high dimensions, the volume of a sphere relative to its bounding cube decreases, which aligns with the concept of adding dimensions and is significant for understanding spatial relationships.
- High-dimensional spaces enable near-orthogonality, a critical concept in machine learning, allowing many directions to be sufficiently orthogonal, which is essential for algorithms and data analysis.

## [Why does FM sound better than AM?](https://www.johndcook.com/blog/2024/10/13/why-does-fm-sound-better-than-am/)

- FM radio is superior to AM radio in terms of sound quality because it is less susceptible to noise interference.- FM operates by varying frequency, whereas AM varies amplitude, making FM less affected by noise, which primarily impacts amplitude.- Edwin Howard Armstrong, the inventor of FM, anticipated that FM would reduce noise, a significant advantage over AM systems that struggle to eliminate noise without message loss.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41832302)

- FM radio offers superior audio fidelity compared to AM due to its higher bandwidth, with channels spaced 200 kHz apart versus AM's 9 kHz.
- FM is less prone to noise interference because it encodes information through frequency variations, making it more resistant to static and amplitude-based noise.
- The higher frequency band of FM avoids low-frequency noise, such as that from thunderstorms, resulting in clearer sound quality, particularly for music.

## [A VSCode Extension to edit HTML visually in real-time](https://github.com/urin/vscode-web-visual-editor)

- Web Visual Editor is a tool for real-time visual editing of HTML files, offering features like direct HTML element editing and instant preview of changes.
- It integrates seamlessly with Visual Studio Code, allowing synchronized selection of HTML elements and text, along with functionalities like zoom, element movement, alignment, and script management.
- The tool is similar to microsoft/vscode-livepreview but emphasizes synchronized code and visual selection, with minimal functionality for easy expansion, and is available under the MIT License.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41833198)

- A new Visual Studio Code (VSCode) extension offers real-time visual editing of HTML, prompting comparisons with Microsoft's existing Live Preview tool.
- The extension is noted for its real-time preview and element selection capabilities, which could enhance web development workflows.
- Discussions arise around the evolution of web development tools, with some users expressing nostalgia for older tools like Dreamweaver and FrontPage, while others debate the benefits of modern frameworks versus traditional HTML/CSS/JS.

## [Introducing Our New Name](https://blog.minetest.net/2024/10/13/Introducing-Our-New-Name/)

- Minetest has rebranded to "Luanti," a name inspired by the Finnish word for "creation" and the Lua programming language, highlighting its focus on content creation.
- Luanti aims to differentiate itself from its origins as a Minecraft clone by offering an approachable API, easy scripting, and support for community-created games and mods.
- The rebranding involves changes to repositories and community hubs, while the core engine remains unchanged, positioning Luanti as a growing platform for creativity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41832215)

- Minetest has been renamed to "Luanti," eliciting mixed reactions due to its pronunciation and spelling, though some appreciate its originality.
- The community values Minetest/Luanti for its modularity and ease of modding, suggesting further differentiation from Minecraft through changes in art style and physics.
- Discussions include comparisons with Minecraft's Bedrock and Java editions, focusing on modding capabilities and multiplayer features, while Minetest/Luanti continues to be a popular open-source platform.

## [Upgrading Uber's MySQL Fleet](https://www.uber.com/en-JO/blog/upgrading-ubers-mysql-fleet/)

- Uber upgraded its MySQL database from version 5.7 to 8.0, addressing end-of-life concerns and enhancing performance and features.
- The upgrade involved over 2,100 clusters and 16,000 nodes, using a side-by-side approach to minimize downtime and risk.
- The transition improved performance, reduced database lock time, and enhanced query efficiency, highlighting Uber's focus on innovation and reliability.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41836748)

- Uber's upgrade to MySQL version 8.0 has initiated discussions regarding their database strategy, particularly the efficiency of their setup with many nodes for low queries per second.
- The choice of MySQL over alternatives like PostgreSQL or MariaDB is debated, with some citing past performance issues with PostgreSQL's VACUUM process.
- Uber's collaboration with Percona and their strategic upgrade approach underscore their dedication to enhancing database performance.

## [Embedded Rust in Production?](https://blog.lohr.dev/embedded-rust)

- Michael Lohr from STABL Energy discusses using Rust for embedded systems on the ESP32 platform, highlighting its reliability over C for connecting battery storage systems to the cloud.
- The transition to Rust began in 2022 due to reliability issues with C, and despite longer development times, Rust required minimal debugging and has been bug-free in production for over a year.
- A challenge remains in finding developers skilled in both Rust and C, but Rust is considered a viable choice for embedded projects, with Lohr favoring it over C.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41834662)

- A developer recounted their experience of transitioning tools from Python to Rust in a large game development company, resulting in faster but unmaintainable tools due to limited Rust expertise.
- The decision to adopt Rust was based on personal interest rather than business needs, leading to technical debt and highlighting the challenges of integrating new languages.
- Despite Rust's advantages in safety and performance, its adoption in production is often impeded by the scarcity of experienced developers and the language's complexity.

## [X11 tool to share a screen area in any video meeting](https://github.com/splitbrain/clipscreen)

- Clipscreen is an app that creates a virtual monitor to mirror a specific part of your screen, useful for sharing in video conferencing tools like Google Meet or Microsoft Teams.
- It requires X11 development libraries, the Cairo graphics library, and a C++ compiler to compile, and it operates on Linux with xorg.
- The app is licensed under a permissive free software license, allowing for broad usage and modification.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41837204)

- A developer has created a tool using the X11 xrandr extension to allow sharing of specific screen areas in video meetings, addressing limitations in platforms like Google Meet.
- The tool mirrors a selected screen region to a virtual monitor, enabling more precise sharing options, and is implemented in approximately 100 lines of C++ code, though it lacks error handling.
- Users appreciate the tool's simplicity and effectiveness, particularly for those with large monitors, but discuss concerns about potential high CPU usage and comparisons with Wayland's different screen-sharing approach.

## [Why pay for a search engine](https://help.kagi.com/kagi/why-kagi/why-pay-for-search.html)

- Search advertising is increasingly aggressive, making it difficult to differentiate from organic results, with spending projected to grow significantly from $185.35 billion in 2022 to $261 billion by 2028.
- Kagi presents an alternative search engine model by charging users a fee, offering faster, more accurate, and privacy-focused search results without ads or invasive tracking.
- Unlike ad-supported search engines like Google, which earns approximately $277 per user annually from ads, Kagi's subscription model aligns its incentives with user privacy and experience, starting at $5 per month.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41833833)

- Kagi.com is a paid search engine favored by some users for its ability to filter out SEO spam and deliver more relevant search results compared to Google.
- The search engine is appreciated for its privacy features and customization options, though concerns about its cost and sign-in requirement persist.
- The ongoing debate questions the value of paying for a search engine amidst the prevalence of SEO and AI-generated content on the web.

## [Faster convergence for diffusion models](https://sihyun.me/REPA/)

- Generative models, particularly diffusion models, are effective for creating complex visual data, but training them is challenging due to the need for high-quality internal representations.- The study introduces REPresentation Alignment (REPA), a regularization technique that aligns diffusion model representations with high-quality external representations, improving training efficiency and generation quality.- REPA enhances performance by reducing the semantic gap in representations, allowing diffusion transformers to focus on high-frequency details, and demonstrates scalability and efficiency, outperforming traditional models in speed and quality.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41832579)

- The technique discussed involves using a pre-trained model to guide the training of a second model, specifically a visual encoder, to adapt to a new architecture.
- This method focuses on aligning internal representations rather than direct distillation, distinguishing it from other pre-training strategies.
- The approach raises questions about its efficiency and applicability across various datasets, highlighting its potential benefits and limitations.

## [Blocking the "Sign in with Google" Prompt (2023)](https://superuser.com/questions/1773208/how-can-i-block-the-sign-in-with-google-prompt-on-websites)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41835217)

- Users can block the "Sign in with Google" prompt using ad-filtering syntax, such as `||accounts.google.com/gsi/*$xhr,3p`, to avoid functionality issues on certain websites.
- The discussion emphasizes privacy concerns and the widespread use of popups to collect emails for marketing, prompting users to consider ad blockers like uBlock Origin or alternative browsers like Firefox on Android.
- This highlights the ongoing debate over privacy and the push by major tech companies for single-sign-on systems, which streamline login processes but may raise privacy issues.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Huly – Open-source project management platform" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Huly%20%E2%80%93%20Open-source%20project%20management%20platform&subheading=Monday%2C%20October%2014%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
