---
slug: '/2024/10/18'
---

# 2024-10-18

## [Secret 3D scans in the French Supreme Court](https://cosmowenman.substack.com/p/secret-3d-scans-in-the-french-supreme)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41877513)

- The French Supreme Court has ruled that the public is entitled to access 3D scans from museums, countering the museums' argument that such access would negatively impact their revenue.
- This decision aligns with a previous case involving the Berlin Egyptian Museum, where concerns about revenue loss from releasing 3D scans of the Nefertiti bust were deemed misleading.
- The ruling underscores that public funding for digitization projects implies an obligation to provide public access, although museums have been slow to adhere, reflecting tensions between public access and institutional control.

## [Grandmaster-level chess without search](https://github.com/google-deepmind/searchless_chess)

- The repository implements a transformer model trained on 10 million chess games, achieving a Lichess blitz Elo of 2895, surpassing AlphaZero's networks without using Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS).- It includes scripts for training, evaluation, and puzzle-solving, requiring Python 3.10, JAX with CUDA, Stockfish, and Leela Chess Zero.- The software is licensed under Apache 2.0, with model weights under CC-BY 4.0, and provides installation instructions and dataset download links.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41872813)

- The discussion centers on developing a chess engine that plays at a non-Grandmaster level, aiming for a more human-like experience rather than the unrealistic play of traditional engines.- Alternatives such as Maia and KataGo are mentioned for their ability to provide a more human-like chess experience, highlighting the potential of neural networks in enhancing chess engines.- The conversation acknowledges the complexity of chess and the limitations of current technology in fully solving the game, suggesting a combination of search algorithms and neural networks to improve performance.

## [C++ proposal: There are exactly 8 bits in a byte](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2024/p3477r0.html)

- The proposal suggests that C++ should officially require an 8-bit byte, aligning with current hardware and software practices.
- Historically, the CHAR_BIT macro allowed for varying byte sizes, but most systems and mainstream compilers like GCC, LLVM, and MSVC now use 8-bit bytes by default.
- Aligning C++ with the 8-bit byte standard would simplify language and library support, as non-8-bit architectures are mostly irrelevant to modern C++ development.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41874394)

- A proposal has been made to standardize the definition of a byte as 8 bits in the C++ programming language, which is currently under discussion.
- The proposal includes discussions on IEEE floating-point standards and their semantics, highlighting the importance of consistent data representation.
- Historical context is provided, noting that older systems like UNIVAC and Digital Signal Processors (DSPs) used non-8-bit bytes, sparking debate on the modern relevance and potential impact on C++ standards.

## [Kagi Update: AI Image Filter for Search Results](https://help.kagi.com/kagi/features/exclude-ai-images.html)

- Kagi has introduced an AI Image Filter to help users manage AI-generated images in search results by downranking and labeling them.
- The filter uses website reputation instead of precise image analysis, meaning some AI content might still appear, but users can block sites through search personalization.
- This feature is developed based on user feedback and Kagi's AI philosophy, with ongoing improvements and encouraged user feedback for enhancement.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41873204)

- Kagi has launched an AI image filter for search results, which demotes images from websites with a high percentage of AI-generated content.
- Users have the option to use a uBlacklist feed to exclude AI image sites, enhancing the search for authentic content.
- While some users value Kagi's features, others debate its cost-effectiveness and the AI filter's reliance on site reputation rather than individual image analysis.

## [Type 2 diabetes: New treatment eliminates insulin for 86% of patients](https://scitechdaily.com/diabetes-breakthrough-new-treatment-eliminates-insulin-for-86-of-patients/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41873606)

- A new treatment for type 2 diabetes, combining an endoscopic procedure and semaglutide, has shown promising results, eliminating the need for insulin in 86% of patients.
- The study, though limited by a small sample size of 14 participants, suggests potential benefits, possibly influenced by weight loss and dietary changes.
- The long-term sustainability and impact of this treatment on lifestyle changes are yet to be determined.

## [Using static websites for tiny archives](https://alexwlchan.net/2024/static-websites/)

- The author uses static websites to organize digital archives, finding them more efficient than traditional file systems like macOS Finder.
- This method involves creating simple HTML sites for different file collections, allowing for easy browsing and the addition of metadata and tags.
- Inspired by platforms like Twitter's account export, this approach emphasizes sustainability, flexibility, and minimal maintenance, with resources like Blake Watson's "HTML for People" recommended for those interested in adopting this system.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41876750)

- The discussion focuses on using static websites for archiving, highlighting methods for organizing and storing data, such as HTML files with embedded images and Markdown for simplicity and future-proofing.
- Tools like Obsidian and Syncthing are favored for syncing and managing notes, with scripts used to convert data into Markdown or HTML for easy access.
- The conversation underscores the advantages of plain text and static sites for personal data management, emphasizing simplicity and long-term accessibility.

## [Apple Passwords’ generated strong password format](https://rmondello.com/2024/10/07/apple-passwords-generated-strong-password-format/)

- Apple's strong password format uses two-syllable "words" to create passwords like "hupvEw-fodne1-qabjyg," making them easier to type and remember.
- These passwords are 20 characters long, include lowercase letters, a hyphen, a digit, and have 71 bits of entropy, ensuring security and compatibility with many websites.
- The design avoids offensive terms and was explained in a 2018 talk by Ricky Mondello, highlighting Apple's focus on user-friendly security measures.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41878290)

- Apple's password generator prioritizes usability by creating strong passwords without special characters, making them easier to type across different keyboards.
- The ongoing debate centers around balancing password complexity with user convenience, as strict password rules can lead to user frustration and potentially decreased security.
- Entropy, which measures randomness, is more crucial for password security than character variety, challenging the notion that complex passwords are inherently more secure.

## [Why does everyone run ancient Postgres versions?](https://neon.tech/blog/why-does-everyone-run-ancient-postgres-versions)

- Many Postgres users are reluctant to upgrade to the latest version, such as Postgres 17, due to the complexity and time involved, despite the reliability of older versions.- Upgrading offers performance enhancements and new features, but it can be challenging due to potential compatibility issues, requiring careful planning and execution.- Tools like pgversions.com and initiatives by companies like Neon, which offer features like logical replication and a one-click upgrade option, aim to simplify the upgrade process and encourage users to stay current with performance and compatibility improvements.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41873957)

- Upgrading Postgres is often avoided due to its complexity, potential for errors, and the significant downtime it can cause.
- The upgrade process requires the previous version to be installed, which can conflict with system policies, particularly in Docker environments.
- Users typically upgrade only when necessary, such as when a version reaches end-of-life, despite newer versions offering improvements.

## [Factorio – Visualizing construction material dependencies](https://community.wolfram.com/groups/-/m/t/1793319)

- The Wolfram Community is a platform for users to connect, solve problems, and share ideas on topics such as game development and Mathematica graphics.
- A post by Sander Huisman highlights using Mathematica to visualize dependencies in the game Factorio, which involves automating processes to create complex items.
- The community provides resources like Wolfram Language documentation and encourages participation in discussions to explore Wolfram's products and services.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41876821)

- Factorio fans are discussing tools like YAFC and Foreman2 for visualizing construction material dependencies, which are crucial for efficient gameplay.
- The anticipated Factorio 2.0 DLC is expected to add complexity, generating excitement among players who compare it to other strategy games like Civilization.
- The community is eagerly awaiting new mechanics in the expansion, with discussions highlighting the game's addictive nature and its impact on productivity.

## [Go Plan9 Memo](https://pehringer.info/go_plan9_memo.html)

- The author achieved a significant 450% performance improvement in calculations by exploring Plan9 assembly while developing a SIMD (Single Instruction, Multiple Data) package for the Go programming language.
- This highlights the potential of using Plan9 assembly to optimize performance in software development, particularly in computational tasks.
- The post underscores the importance of exploring different programming techniques and tools to enhance software efficiency and performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41879854)

- A developer reports a significant 450% performance improvement in SIMD (Single Instruction, Multiple Data) calculations by using Plan9 assembly with the Go programming language.
- The discussion highlights Go's unique assembly language, which is influenced by Plan9, and its advantages for cross-compilation across different platforms.
- The conversation also delves into Go's historical connections to Plan9 and the complexities involved in incorporating SIMD operations into Go's standard library.

## [Microsoft and OpenAI's close partnership shows signs of fraying](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/17/technology/microsoft-openai-partnership-deal.html)

- OpenAI's partnership with Microsoft is experiencing tension due to financial pressures and disagreements, despite Microsoft's $13 billion investment.
- OpenAI is seeking to renegotiate its deal with Microsoft for more computing power and reduced costs, while Microsoft is diversifying its investments in other AI ventures.
- OpenAI is also exploring investments from other companies, including a significant $10 billion computing deal with Oracle, and has a contract clause with Microsoft allowing renegotiation if it achieves artificial general intelligence (AGI).

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41878281)

- The partnership between Microsoft and OpenAI is reportedly under strain, with critics questioning OpenAI's trustworthiness and its definition of success.
- There is ongoing debate about whether OpenAI holds a significant competitive edge over companies like Google, Meta, and Anthropic, alongside concerns about the sustainability and costs of AI models.
- Discussions include skepticism about AI reaching Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) and fears that reliance on AI could lead to skill atrophy, with the article relying on numerous anonymous sources for its claims.

## [Smart pointers for the kernel](https://lwn.net/Articles/992055/)

- The Rust-for-Linux project is exploring the integration of Rust's smart-pointer benefits into the Linux kernel, necessitating custom pointers to fit the kernel's memory model.
- Xiangfei Ding's discussion highlights enabling custom smart pointers to mimic built-in ones, focusing on experimental features like unsizing and dynamic dispatch, with an RFC (Request for Comments) to stabilize them.
- The article contrasts Rust's safety-focused approach with C's reliance on documentation for handling invariants and memory models, emphasizing the relevance of the Linux kernel memory model and its interaction with Rust's atomics.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41875792)

- A GitHub plugin proposal for GCC (GNU Compiler Collection) is being discussed for smart pointers in the Linux kernel, with suggestions to formally propose it to the kernel team.
- The conversation compares Rust's safety features, such as the use of `unsafe`, with C's memory management, highlighting the balance between safety and flexibility in programming.
- The discussion underscores the importance of understanding both high-level abstractions and low-level operations, advocating for foundational knowledge in embedded systems to enhance kernel development.

## [SOFA - Start Often Finish rArely](https://tilde.town/~dozens/sofa/)

- SOFA is a hacker/art collective that encourages starting projects without the pressure to complete them, focusing on experiences and skill development.
- The collective promotes flexibility in identity and interests, allowing individuals to stop activities like reading or coding whenever they choose.
- SOFA challenges societal norms by advocating for letting go of projects that no longer serve you, emphasizing the value of the journey over completion.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41875108)

- The "Start Often Finish rArely" (SOFA) concept encourages initiating multiple projects without the obligation to complete them, promoting exploration over completion.
- The philosophy is contrasted with traditional marriage, highlighting differing views on commitment and personal happiness.
- Opinions vary on whether SOFA fosters personal growth and interest exploration or undermines discipline and long-term commitment.

## [Net 9.0 LINQ Performance Improvements](https://blog.ndepend.com/net-9-0-linq-performance-improvements/)

- .NET 9.0 introduces significant performance improvements for LINQ (Language Integrated Query), enhancing efficiency in various scenarios.- Key enhancements include the use of Span for faster iteration and the TryGetSpan() method, optimizing iteration over arrays and lists.- Specialized iterators and SIMD (Single Instruction, Multiple Data) usage improve operations like Count(), First(), Last(), and summing integers, making LINQ faster and more efficient in .NET 9.0.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41878095)

- LINQ's IEnumerable extensions enable C# to be written in a functional style, offering performance optimizations similar to those in Haskell, but can result in complex code if not used judiciously.
- Some developers opt for Dapper over Entity Framework due to performance issues, and there are calls for Microsoft to enhance LINQ's syntax and performance, especially regarding lambda allocation.
- Despite its capabilities, LINQ can be challenging for teams lacking functional programming experience, and the .NET ecosystem is sometimes criticized for its complexity and less comprehensive documentation compared to other languages.

## [Code That Helped End Apartheid](https://www.wired.com/story/plaintext-you-can-now-see-the-code-that-ended-apartheid/)

- John Graham-Cumming, Cloudflare's Chief Technology Officer, successfully decrypted a 30-year-old encrypted file related to South Africa's anti-apartheid efforts.
- The file was part of a secure communication system developed by Tim Jenkin for the African National Congress (ANC) using a one-time pad encryption method, crucial for safe communication during Operation Vula.
- The decrypted code is now open-sourced on GitHub, showcasing the significant role of technology in historical activism and the fight against apartheid.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41879072)

- The Wired article highlights Tim Jenkin's use of code, including one-time pads and 8-bit computers, in the fight against apartheid in South Africa.
- It explores the historical impact of these technologies, alongside the role of protests and figures like Nelson Mandela, in achieving a peaceful transition.
- The article is paywalled, but an archive link is available for those interested in accessing the full content.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Secret 3D scans in the French Supreme Court" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Secret%203D%20scans%20in%20the%20French%20Supreme%20Court&subheading=Friday%2C%20October%2018%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
