---
slug: '/2024/10/20'
---

# 2024-10-20

## [Accountability sinks](https://aworkinglibrary.com/writing/accountability-sinks)

- Dan Davies introduces the concept of "accountability sinks," where organizations obscure the consequences of decisions, making it difficult to hold anyone accountable.- These accountability sinks are prevalent in industries like hospitality, health insurance, airlines, and government agencies, where decision origins become unclear, breaking feedback loops.- The use of AI can worsen accountability sinks by further obscuring responsibility, highlighting the need for new strategies to ensure organizations remain accountable for their decisions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41891694)

- Organizations, including governments, often create "accountability sinks," which obscure responsibility for decisions, complicating accountability.- Automated systems minimize human interaction, leading to frustrating customer experiences and a lack of direct accountability.- The complexity of modern systems results in decisions being made collectively or through automation, leaving individuals without clear recourse for addressing issues.

## [QUIC is not quick enough over fast internet](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.09423)

- The study "QUIC is not Quick Enough over Fast Internet" reveals that QUIC's data rate can be up to 45.2% lower than the traditional TCP+TLS+HTTP/2 on high-speed networks.- The performance gap between QUIC and TCP+TLS+HTTP/2 increases with higher bandwidth, impacting file transfers, video streaming, and web browsing.- The paper identifies high receiver-side processing overhead as the root cause, due to excessive data packets and user-space acknowledgments (ACKs) in QUIC, and provides recommendations for improvement.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41890784)

- QUIC, a protocol aimed at enhancing internet speed, is encountering challenges with fast connections, where some implementations show lower data rates than traditional TCP (Transmission Control Protocol).
- The performance issues are attributed to current QUIC implementations being CPU-bound, especially in browsers, rather than flaws in the protocol itself.
- Despite offering advantages like reduced latency and improved packet loss management, QUIC's performance on high-speed connections is limited by existing hardware and software optimizations, illustrating the complexities in evolving internet protocols.

## [Syncthing Android App Discontinued](https://forum.syncthing.net/t/discontinuing-syncthing-android/23002)

- The Syncthing Android app will be retired, with its final release scheduled for December 2024 on Github and F-Droid.
- The decision to retire the app stems from challenges with Google Play publishing and a lack of active maintenance.
- The app has not experienced significant development recently, leading to insufficient motivation to continue its upkeep.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41895718)

- The Syncthing Android app has been discontinued from the Google Play Store due to unclear demands and additional work imposed by Google's requirements.
- The developer's loss of motivation highlights concerns about Google's increasing control over Android, affecting app functionality and user choice.
- Users can still access a fork of the app on F-Droid, an alternative app distribution platform.

## [Internet Archive breached again through stolen access tokens](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/internet-archive-breached-again-through-stolen-access-tokens/)

- The Internet Archive experienced a security breach due to stolen access tokens on their Zendesk email support platform, affecting over 800,000 support tickets.
- The breach occurred because the Internet Archive did not rotate exposed GitLab authentication tokens, despite prior warnings.
- The attack was motivated by the desire for cyber street credibility, with stolen data, including personal IDs, likely being traded in data breach communities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41895764)

- The Internet Archive experienced another security breach due to stolen access tokens, prompting discussions on the necessity of decentralized storage to avoid single points of failure.
- Suggestions for alternatives include systems like LOCKSS (Lots of Copies Keep Stuff Safe), which use a consensus protocol, while IPFS (InterPlanetary File System) faces criticism for inefficiency.
- The breach underscores the Archive's security vulnerabilities, with calls for improved management, funding strategies, and debates over its copyright and security practices.

## [Ribbonfarm Is Retiring](https://www.ribbonfarm.com/2024/10/10/ribbonfarm-is-retiring/)

- Ribbonfarm, a blog by Venkatesh Rao, will retire on November 13, 2024, concluding its 17-year run, though the site will remain accessible without new content.
- Rao reflects on blogging's evolution, noting shifts to platforms like Substack and the emergence of the "cozyweb" era, indicating changes in digital content consumption.
- He plans to transition to other media, focusing on technology trends and serialized projects, while expressing gratitude to readers and considering future endeavors.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41889876)

- Ribbonfarm, a blog by Venkatesh Rao, is closing after 17 years, marking the perceived end of the blogosphere era that flourished during Web 2.0.
- The decline of blogs is linked to rising interest rates and a move towards paid distribution models, reflecting a broader cultural shift.
- Rao introduced the term "cozyweb" to describe the intimate online spaces emerging as alternatives to public blogs and social media, and plans to compile book-length volumes from the blog's archives.

## [Origin of 'Daemon' in Computing](https://www.takeourword.com/TOW146/page4.html)

- The term "daemon" in computing, used by Professor Corbato's team at Project MAC in 1963, was inspired by Maxwell's daemon in physics, not an acronym.
- The discussion also explores language nuances and etymology, including terms like "au jus," "golf," and "piri piri."
- Reader contributions and clarifications on language and etymology are included in the discussion.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41891953)

- In computing, a "daemon" refers to background processes that manage system tasks, originating from the \*nix (Unix-like) operating systems.
- The term has roots in Greek mythology, where "daimon" means a guiding spirit, and in tech culture, it is often associated with quirky and dark humor.
- Pronunciation of "daemon" varies, with some saying "day-mon" and others "demon," reflecting its mythological and cultural influences.

## [Bitwarden is no longer free software](https://github.com/bitwarden/clients/issues/11611)

- Bitwarden's desktop version 2024.10.0 is no longer considered free software due to a new dependency, @bitwarden/sdk-internal, which limits its use to Bitwarden applications only.
- This change has raised concerns among users as it contradicts open-source principles, prompting some to consider alternatives or fork the previous version.
- Bitwarden has recognized the issue and intends to address it, emphasizing that the SDK and client are distinct programs, reflecting a broader trend from open-source to proprietary software models.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41893994)

- Bitwarden is experiencing criticism for shifting away from being fully open-source, causing concern among users who valued its open-source commitment.
- The move is perceived as a possible precursor to acquisition, drawing parallels to previous actions by CEO Michael Crandell, despite assurances from the CTO about maintaining GPL (General Public License) compatibility.
- Users are exploring alternatives such as KeePassXC and Proton Pass, reflecting the broader challenges and criticisms companies face when transitioning from open-source to proprietary models.

## [Regarding our Cease and Desist letter to Automattic](https://wpfusion.com/business/regarding-our-cease-and-desist-letter-to-automattic/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41891799)

- Automattic responded to a cease and desist letter about WPFusion's listing by claiming fair use, even though it was part of their paid plans, sparking debate over open-source software and trademark issues.
- Critics argue that Automattic's actions blur the distinction between WordPress.org (open-source) and WordPress.com (commercial), raising concerns about the intentions of Matt Mullenweg, a key figure in the WordPress community.
- The situation underscores ongoing tensions in the open-source community regarding corporate use and trademark enforcement.

## [Autism's Four Core Subtypes](https://www.thetransmitter.org/spectrum/untangling-biological-threads-from-autisms-phenotypic-patchwork-reveals-four-core-subtypes/)

- A study categorizes autistic individuals into four subgroups based on shared traits and genetic variants, using data from over 5,000 autistic children.
- Each subgroup is linked to distinct biological pathways, with varying challenges in autism traits, from mild to severe difficulties, social challenges, or developmental delays.
- The study suggests that genetic profiles could help predict clinical milestones, and further data could refine these subtypes, as reported on medRxiv.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41889990)

- A study by Troyanskaya and colleagues analyzed traits and behaviors of 5,392 autistic individuals, identifying four autism subtypes using a statistical model similar to clustering in data analysis.
- The findings suggest that understanding autism's complexity through subtypes may be beneficial, though there is debate about whether psychological diagnoses effectively capture individual uniqueness.
- The discussion includes the broadness of the autism diagnosis, the merging of autism and Asperger's, and the challenges of creating scientifically valid and practically useful categories.

## [How to do distributed locking (2016)](https://martin.kleppmann.com/2016/02/08/how-to-do-distributed-locking.html)

- Martin Kleppmann criticizes the Redlock algorithm for distributed locking on Redis, highlighting its unsuitability for scenarios demanding correctness due to its dependence on timing assumptions and absence of fencing tokens.
- He advises using a single Redis instance for efficiency locks and a consensus system like ZooKeeper for locks requiring correctness, as Redlock's timing assumptions can lead to vulnerabilities such as network delays and process pauses.
- Kleppmann emphasizes the importance of understanding Redis's limitations and selecting the right tools for specific locking requirements.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41894451)

- In 2018, a team opted for Postgres over Redis for distributed locking in ticket allocation, valuing its reliability and simplicity.
- The team utilized a composite UPDATE statement for distributed locks, which improved accuracy and performance.
- The discussion underscores that many distributed systems can rely on traditional database transactions, and not all issues necessitate complex distributed solutions.

## [The Languages of English, Math, and Programming](https://github.com/norvig/pytudes/blob/main/ipynb/Triplets.ipynb)

- The Norvig/pytudes repository is a public project on GitHub with significant community engagement, evidenced by its 2.4k forks and 22.8k stars.
- It includes various resources such as code, issues, pull requests, and security insights, indicating active development and collaboration.
- A notable file within the repository, "Triplets.ipynb," consists of 584 lines and is 19.3 KB in size, suggesting a substantial amount of code or data.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41890158)

- The discussion highlights the effectiveness of English, Math, and Programming languages in problem-solving with Large Language Models (LLMs), emphasizing Python's structured nature for expressing problems.- It is suggested that LLMs may perform better with programming languages due to extensive training on examples in these languages, though they face limitations in reasoning and computation.- The debate includes whether math and programming should be classified as languages, noting their formal language characteristics and the impact of language choice on LLMs' problem-solving efficiency.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Accountability sinks" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Accountability%20sinks&subheading=Sunday%2C%20October%2020%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
