---
slug: '/2024/10/22'
---

# 2024-10-22

## [First images from Euclid are in](https://dlmultimedia.esa.int/download/public/videos/2024/10/023/orig-2410_023_AR_EN.mp4)

- The Euclid mission by the European Space Agency (ESA) is focused on creating a 3D map of the universe to study the effects of dark matter and dark energy.
- The mission involves extensive cosmic surveys and detailed observations, with various image files and video clips documenting its progress.
- This initiative is significant for advancing our understanding of the universe's structure and the mysterious forces that shape it.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41908075)

- The Euclid space telescope has released its first images, revealing numerous galaxies and emphasizing the vastness of the universe.
- These images spark discussions about humanity's place in the universe, the possibility of intelligent life, and the technological progress enabling cosmic exploration.
- The Euclid mission's goal is to develop a 3D map of the universe, providing insights into dark matter and dark energy, and is the result of decades of collaborative work by scientists and engineers.

## [Math is still catching up to the genius of Ramanujan](https://www.quantamagazine.org/srinivasa-ramanujan-was-a-genius-math-is-still-catching-up-20241021/)

- Srinivasa Ramanujan, a self-taught mathematician from colonial India, significantly impacted mathematics, despite having no formal education.
- His work, inspired by dreams, has influenced fields such as algebraic geometry, number theory, and statistical physics, with his partition identities revealing unexpected connections across disciplines.
- Mathematicians, including Hussein Mourtada, continue to discover new insights from Ramanujan's work, highlighting its lasting relevance and the unity it brings to various mathematical areas.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41909564)

- The discussion addresses the challenges in education systems in identifying and supporting exceptional talents, using Ramanujan as an example.
- There is a debate on whether the current broad education system may hinder potential geniuses who excel in specific areas but struggle in others.
- The conversation questions the broader purpose of education: whether to produce well-rounded individuals or to nurture specialized talents.

## [Computer use, a new Claude 3.5 Sonnet, and Claude 3.5 Haiku](https://www.anthropic.com/news/3-5-models-and-computer-use)

- The announcement introduces the upgraded Claude 3.5 Sonnet and the new Claude 3.5 Haiku model, with significant improvements in coding and a new computer interaction capability in public beta.
- Companies such as Replit and The Browser Company are exploring the potential of these models, which are accessible via the Anthropic API, Amazon Bedrock, and Google Cloud’s Vertex AI.
- Claude 3.5 Haiku, set to launch later this month, promises enhanced performance without additional cost or speed changes compared to its predecessor.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41914989)

- There is confusion regarding the advancement levels of Anthropic's AI models, Sonnet and Opus, with unclear messaging from the company.
- Users are debating the potential and practicality of AI in computer use, particularly concerning privacy and control issues.
- Anthropic's branding is perceived as warm and friendly, and there is a preference among some users for Claude over ChatGPT for coding tasks.

## [Microsoft is introducing hidden APIs to VS Code only enabled for Copilot?](https://old.reddit.com/r/ChatGPTCoding/comments/1g8xrub/microsoft_is_introducing_hidden_apis_to_vs_code/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41907350)

- Microsoft is activating hidden APIs in Visual Studio Code (VS Code) to enhance Copilot, leading to discussions about potential anti-competitive behavior.- While some view this as a strategy to improve team productivity, others believe it exploits Microsoft's ownership to favor Copilot over competitors.- Critics highlight that although VS Code is open source, restrictions on the official extension marketplace and certain Microsoft extensions limit competition, raising concerns about Microsoft's past anti-competitive practices and their effects on the developer community.

## [A near impossible literacy test Louisiana used to suppress the black vote](https://www.openculture.com/2024/10/take-the-near-impossible-literacy-test-louisiana-used-to-suppress-the-black-vote.html)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41908701)

- Louisiana employed a literacy test with ambiguous questions to suppress the black vote, with each parish having its own version, leading to a lack of uniformity.
- The authenticity and widespread use of the test are debated, with some claiming it was used in 1964, but verification is challenging.
- This test was part of broader discriminatory efforts to disenfranchise black voters, and its legacy continues to affect voting rights today.

## [Apple's AirPods Pro hearing health features](https://www.theverge.com/24275178/apple-airpods-pro-hearing-aid-test-protection-preview)

- Apple's AirPods Pro 2 will introduce hearing health features, including hearing aid functionality, a hearing test, and enhanced hearing protection, with iOS 18.1.- These features could position AirPods Pro 2 as over-the-counter hearing aids, potentially reducing stigma and offering a more affordable option for mild to moderate hearing loss.- The development signifies a major step in integrating hearing aid functionality into consumer tech, possibly influencing other companies to adopt similar innovations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41909967)

- Apple's AirPods Pro now include hearing health features, allowing them to function as hearing aids, which has been well-received by users with hearing loss.
- The AirPods Pro's transparency mode and noise cancellation are particularly beneficial in loud environments, such as concerts, enhancing the listening experience.
- The FDA approval of AirPods as hearing aids could potentially reduce the stigma associated with traditional hearing aids and impact the hearing aid market.

## [FTC's rule banning fake online reviews goes into effect](https://abcnews.go.com/US/wireStory/ftcs-rule-banning-fake-online-reviews-effect-115009298)

- A new federal rule by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) bans the sale or purchase of fake online reviews, effective since August.
- The rule aims to protect consumers and ensure fair competition by prohibiting reviews from non-existent individuals, AI-generated content, or those lacking genuine experience.
- Businesses involved in creating, selling, or buying fake reviews will face penalties, and violations can be reported to the FTC.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41915187)

- The FTC has implemented a new rule banning fake online reviews, targeting businesses that create, buy, or sell such reviews, including those generated by AI or individuals without genuine product experience.
- The rule also addresses practices of review suppression, aiming to reduce deceptive practices in online reviews.
- The effectiveness of this rule will largely depend on enforcement and compliance by major platforms, despite potential loopholes and challenges in regulating incentivized reviews or manipulated product listings.

## [Rust Web Framework](https://github.com/levkk/rwf)

- A new web framework for Rust, similar to Ruby on Rails, has been developed, featuring MVC (Model-View-Controller), ORM (Object-Relational Mapping), templates, background jobs, authentication, websockets, and migrations.
- The framework, named Rwf, includes a WSGI (Web Server Gateway Interface) server, enabling the integration of Django or Flask applications, facilitating gradual migration to Rust.
- This development highlights Rust's potential for both prototyping and production, offering an additional framework for developers to explore.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41914544)

- A developer named levkk has introduced a new web framework for Rust, inspired by Rails, incorporating MVC (Model-View-Controller) architecture, its own ORM (Object-Relational Mapping), and templates.- The framework supports gradual migration from Python frameworks like Django by utilizing a WSGI (Web Server Gateway Interface) server, aiming to be a comprehensive web development solution in Rust.- The project has generated interest and discussion regarding best practices in web development, particularly concerning business logic placement and the challenges of developing new ORMs and template languages in Rust.

## [Learning to Learn](https://kevin.the.li/posts/learning-to-learn/)

- The author has conducted over 300 interviews in the past three years, focusing on assessing candidates for an early-stage startup.
- A notable interview question asked candidates to share something they've learned that gives them an edge, with a standout response emphasizing the importance of efficient learning strategies.
- The candidate's approach involved quickly identifying foundational knowledge, creating a personal curriculum, and balancing intensive initial learning with a slower pace, underscoring the need to update learning models for efficiency.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41909827)

- Learning should be approached with consistent effort, akin to a regular gym routine, rather than focusing solely on intense, sporadic sessions.
- The 'greasing the groove' method highlights the importance of regular practice, suggesting that small, consistent efforts can lead to significant improvement over time.
- Balancing effort, consistency, and enjoyment is key to effective learning, with tools like ChatGPT aiding in creating a structured curriculum.

## [Don't Publish with IEEE (2005)](http://cr.yp.to/writing/ieee.html)

- D. J. Bernstein criticizes IEEE for not accepting public-domain papers, except from government authors, and shares an incident involving a UIC graduate student pressured to transfer copyright.
- Bernstein points out contradictions in IEEE's policies and questions their motives, suggesting they seek to control the distribution of scientific information.
- He recommends authors consider alternative publishers like Springer or AMS, which are more open to public-domain papers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41912625)

- Academic publishing is criticized for being costly and offering minimal value, leading researchers to share work on free platforms like arxiv.org.- Despite this, universities continue to pay significant fees to publishers due to entrenched policies valuing certain journals, perpetuating the system.- Efforts to reform include institutions like MIT canceling contracts with publishers and exploring open-access models, though changing academic culture remains challenging.

## [MQTT turns 25](https://andypiper.co.uk/2024/10/22/mqtt-turns-25-heres-how-it-has-endured/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41912787)

- MQTT, a lightweight messaging protocol, marks its 25th anniversary, highlighting its long-standing role in IoT (Internet of Things) and industrial applications due to its efficiency and simplicity.
- Users have reported mixed experiences with MQTT clients, particularly the Eclipse Paho library, mentioning issues with documentation and bugs, yet the protocol remains popular for its versatility.
- Despite some exploring alternatives like NATS and ZeroMQ for specific needs, MQTT continues to be a crucial tool in data communication, especially in environments with limited resources.

## [LTESniffer: An Open-Source LTE Downlink/Uplink Eavesdropper](https://github.com/SysSec-KAIST/LTESniffer)

- LTESniffer is an open-source tool designed for monitoring LTE downlink and uplink traffic, decoding control and shared channels to capture data traffic.- It supports a security API for identity mapping and capability profiling but cannot decrypt encrypted messages, only analyzing unencrypted parts.- Built on FALCON and srsRAN libraries, LTESniffer requires specific hardware and software, including a high-performance CPU and compatible Software Defined Radios (SDRs), and outputs data in pcap files for analysis with WireShark.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41910084)

- LTESniffer is an open-source tool for LTE (Long-Term Evolution) eavesdropping, available on GitHub, supporting Frequency Division Duplex (FDD) and limited to 20MHz for some real-time decoding.
- The discussion emphasizes the complexity of mobile network acronyms and the high cost of necessary hardware, with alternatives like cheaper Software-Defined Radios (SDRs) and smartphone modems being mentioned but having limitations.
- Users share experiences with network security labs, noting challenges in using smartphone modems for network debugging due to their battery-optimized design and closed-source firmware.

## [T-Mobile, AT&T oppose unlocking rule, claim locked phones are good for users](https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2024/10/t-mobile-att-oppose-unlocking-rule-claim-locked-phones-are-good-for-users/)

- T-Mobile and AT&T oppose a proposed FCC rule mandating phone unlocking 60 days post-activation, arguing it could reduce handset subsidies and negatively impact consumers by making devices more expensive.
- Consumer groups advocate for the rule, suggesting it would provide more choices and lower costs for consumers, while Verizon supports a uniform unlocking policy.
- The FCC is evaluating the rule's impact on phone subsidies and asserts its legal authority to enforce unlocking rules, though T-Mobile challenges this, referencing recent Supreme Court decisions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41908231)

- T-Mobile and AT&T argue against a rule mandating phone unlocking, claiming that locked phones support subsidized deals beneficial to consumers.
- Critics counter that locked phones mainly serve carriers by restricting customer choice and mobility.
- In Canada, phone locking is illegal, yet carriers continue to offer competitive plans, suggesting that unlocking may not necessarily lead to higher prices or contract enforcement issues.

## [Data Formulator – AI-powered data visualization from Microsoft Research](https://github.com/microsoft/data-formulator)

- Data Formulator integrates user interface interaction with natural language to streamline the process of creating data visualizations, reducing the need for lengthy chats and prompts.
- It enables users to create detailed visualizations, transform data, and refine designs using data threads, enhancing efficiency and creativity.
- A demo video is available to showcase its capabilities, inviting users to explore and provide feedback on the tool.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41907719)

- Data Formulator is an AI-driven data visualization tool developed by Microsoft Research, designed to merge user interface interaction with natural language for creating visualizations.
- The tool is open source and aims to simplify data transformation and visualization for end-user analysts, though advanced users might encounter design limitations.
- Future enhancements are anticipated, such as integration with SQL databases and improved user interaction, despite current challenges with AI reliability.

## [Software Engineering Body of Knowledge (SWEBOK) v4.0 is out [pdf]](https://ieeecs-media.computer.org/media/education/swebok/swebok-v4.pdf)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41907412)

- The release of SWEBOK v4.0 has initiated discussions about the need for standardized knowledge and certifications in software engineering to ensure consistent fundamental skills among engineers.
- Critics argue that SWEBOK is outdated and overly emphasizes management over practical engineering skills, failing to capture the dynamic and diverse nature of the field.
- Despite criticisms, some value SWEBOK as a reference point for software engineering practices, highlighting its role in formalizing the discipline.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="First images from Euclid are in" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=First%20images%20from%20Euclid%20are%20in&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20October%2022%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
