---
slug: '/2024/10/23'
---

# 2024-10-23

## [Arm is canceling Qualcomm's chip design license](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-10-23/arm-to-cancel-qualcomm-chip-design-license-in-escalation-of-feud)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41920401)

- Arm has revoked Qualcomm's chip design license, sparking a legal conflict that could potentially be resolved through settlement.
- The cancellation limits Qualcomm's ability to create custom ARM cores, though they can still utilize ARM's standard reference designs.
- Qualcomm may consider investing in RISC-V, an alternative architecture, but transitioning involves significant complexity and expense, potentially affecting its market position and the broader tech ecosystem.

## [A new book shows how the power of companies is destabilizing governance](https://hai.stanford.edu/news/tech-coup-new-book-shows-how-unchecked-power-companies-destabilizing-governance)

- Marietje Schaake, a Stanford HAI Policy Fellow, has published a book titled "The Tech Coup: How to Save Democracy from Silicon Valley," discussing the influence of tech companies on governance and democracy.
- The book argues for increased legal clarity and accountability in the tech industry, emphasizing the need for independent tech experts to counteract lobbyists and ensure responsible outsourcing.
- Schaake calls for transparency in tech companies' energy use and advocates for the precautionary principle to evaluate new technologies' societal impacts, urging citizens to demand more oversight to protect democratic values.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41919907)

- A new book discusses the destabilizing effect of corporate power on governance, focusing on "techno feudalism" and the erosion of property rights through software leasing.- It examines the influence of tech companies, intellectual property, and the balance between renting and owning digital goods, raising concerns about monopolies, privacy, and democracy.- The book highlights the challenges of regulating technology and emphasizes the need for accountability in the digital realm.

## [Meta Bans Accounts Tracking Private Jets for Zuckerberg, Musk](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-10-22/meta-bans-accounts-tracking-private-jets-for-zuckerberg-musk)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41919173)

- Meta has banned accounts that track the private jets of Mark Zuckerberg and Elon Musk, sparking a debate on privacy and public data.
- The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) mandates jets to broadcast their location for safety, making this data publicly accessible, which critics argue doesn't reveal sensitive information.
- The situation raises ethical questions about privacy, especially concerning public figures who benefit from user data, and whether tracking jets equates to personal data tracking.

## [The Forest Service Is Losing 2,400 Jobs–Including Most of Its Trail Workers](https://www.backpacker.com/news-and-events/news/us-forest-service-job-eliminations-trail-workers/)

- The U.S. Forest Service is reducing its workforce by 2,400 jobs, primarily affecting seasonal trail workers, due to budget constraints.- This reduction will impact the maintenance of public lands, as the agency oversees 193 million acres, and will exacerbate the existing trail maintenance backlog.- The hiring freeze does not apply to firefighters but affects other roles such as biologists and recreation staff, raising concerns about future career opportunities and partnerships with organizations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41920127)

- The U.S. Forest Service is facing a reduction of 2,400 jobs, primarily affecting trail workers, due to budget cuts.
- This situation has ignited discussions on the impact of decreasing agency budgets and the shift of funds towards wildfire fighting.
- The debate encompasses broader issues of government funding priorities, including the balance between public service investment and fiscal responsibility, as well as the role of privatization and the intrinsic value of public goods.

## [Adding row polymorphism to Damas-Hindley-Milner](https://bernsteinbear.com/blog/row-poly/)

- The blog post explores the integration of row polymorphism into the Damas-Hindley-Milner type system, specifically within Scrapscript's Algorithm J, enhancing the system's ability to handle records.
- It introduces rows as a method to model records, mapping names to types and including a "rest" field for additional fields, and discusses the straightforward process of unifying rows by equating types.
- The post revisits let polymorphism, which allows functions to be generic over type variables, and notes that Scrapscript avoids handling duplicate labels due to the lack of a masking operation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41922081)

- Row polymorphism enhances Damas-Hindley-Milner type systems by allowing functions to handle records with extra fields without explicit subtyping, unlike traditional Object-Oriented Programming (OOP).
- Integrating row polymorphism with subtyping introduces complexity, requiring an understanding of concepts like width and depth subtyping, contravariance, and covariance, which can complicate type checking.
- While row polymorphism is valued for its flexibility, as seen in languages like PureScript, its adoption is limited compared to TypeScript, which provides similar capabilities through structural typing.

## [Agent.exe, a cross-platform app to let 3.5 Sonnet control your machine](https://github.com/corbt/agent.exe)

- Agent.exe is a new Electron app that enables Claude 3.5 Sonnet to control your computer using new APIs, with a simple setup process.
- The app supports MacOS and theoretically supports Windows and Linux, requiring users to clone the repository, install dependencies, and add an Anthropic API Key.
- Known limitations include operation only on the primary display and granting AI full control of the computer, with a preference for using Firefox for optimal performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41926770)

- Agent.exe is a cross-platform application that uses the Anthropic API to perform basic tasks, such as finding flights, but it may make errors like booking incorrect dates.
- The app has limitations, including the inability to send messages on behalf of users, and some users recommend running it in a virtual machine (VM) for added security.
- The name ".exe" may evoke caution due to its association with executable files and potential security risks, prompting users to consider security implications before use.

## [I got dysentery so you don’t have to](https://eukaryotewritesblog.com/2024/10/21/i-got-dysentery-so-you-dont-have-to/)

- The author participated in a human challenge trial at the University of Maryland to test a phage-based treatment for shigellosis, a form of dysentery caused by Shigella bacteria.- Shigella is becoming increasingly resistant to antibiotics, making alternative treatments like bacteriophage therapy crucial for combating the disease.- The trial aimed to explore phage therapy as a potential alternative to antibiotics, highlighting the need for more research due to phages' instability compared to antibiotics.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41919365)

- A blog post titled "I got dysentery so you don’t have to" initiated a discussion on health, hygiene, and healthcare systems.
- The conversation included personal experiences with shigellosis, a bacterial infection, and debates comparing US and European healthcare systems, focusing on costs, wait times, and insurance.
- Discussions also covered the risks of animal-borne diseases and the importance of appreciating modern healthcare conveniences, highlighting the complexities and trade-offs in healthcare costs and systems.

## [Simone Giertz talks about invention](https://spectrum.ieee.org/simone-giertz)

- Simone Giertz, famous for her comedic "useless robots" on YouTube, is now venturing into the creation of commercial products.
- Her transition from humor-based content to product development highlights her blend of humor and resilience in her new endeavors.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41919717)

- Simone Giertz, a well-known YouTuber, shares her experiences in product development, emphasizing the financial challenges of small-scale production despite having a significant marketing reach.
- She highlights the importance of creating products that solve personal problems, suggesting this approach can lead to successful inventions.
- Giertz's journey, marked by overcoming brain cancer, demonstrates her resilience and creativity, offering inspiration to aspiring inventors.

## [The global surveillance free-for-all in mobile ad data](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2024/10/the-global-surveillance-free-for-all-in-mobile-ad-data/)

- A lawsuit in New Jersey involves Atlas Data Privacy Corp. and Babel Street, focusing on the alleged violation of Daniel's Law, which protects law enforcement officers' data.
- The case underscores concerns about the widespread availability and potential misuse of mobile location data, including tracking individuals or harassing public servants.
- Despite privacy efforts by major tech companies like Apple and Google, data brokers continue to sell detailed location data, leading to calls for stricter regulations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41923931)

- The global surveillance of mobile ad data raises significant privacy concerns due to minimal regulation, allowing access to detailed personal data for those who can afford it.
- The widespread collection and sale of user data by apps contribute to growing distrust in mobile applications, as users often do not read or understand terms of service.
- There is an urgent need for regulation to protect consumers, as the current system disproportionately benefits companies over individuals.

## [Huawei makes divorce from Android official with HarmonyOS NEXT launch](https://www.theregister.com/2024/10/23/huaweis_harmonyos_next_launch/)

- Huawei has launched HarmonyOS NEXT, its own operating system, marking a shift away from Android, and it is currently in public beta for select Huawei devices.
- The OS does not support Android apps, but major Chinese apps like Meituan and Alipay have developed native versions for HarmonyOS NEXT.
- Huawei claims the new OS enhances device performance by 30% and extends battery life, and it plans to use HarmonyOS on future PCs, moving away from Windows, as part of China's tech independence strategy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41923387)

- Huawei has launched HarmonyOS NEXT, a new operating system that does not support Android apps, marking a significant shift from its previous reliance on Android.
- This development follows Huawei's addition to the US entity list, which restricts US companies from engaging in business with them, prompting Huawei to develop its own OS.
- HarmonyOS NEXT, a microkernel, multiserver OS, is currently available only in China and aims to expand to PCs, potentially increasing competition in the mobile OS market and challenging US-based systems.

## [Several Russian developers lose kernel maintainership status](https://lwn.net/Articles/995186/)

- Several Russian developers were removed from their Linux kernel maintainership roles due to "various compliance requirements," likely linked to sanctions.
- The change, implemented by Greg Kroah-Hartman, was quietly included in a pull request without a public explanation, prompting discussions on the influence of US laws on international projects.
- The decision has raised concerns about the impact of sanctions on open-source contributions and the potential for geopolitical tensions to affect global collaboration.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41919670)

- Several Russian developers have been removed from their Linux kernel maintainership roles, allegedly due to their employers being sanctioned companies in Russia.
- This decision has sparked debate, with opinions divided on whether it could lead to talent flourishing elsewhere or if it is a necessary compliance measure due to sanctions.
- The situation highlights broader implications for open-source projects and geopolitical tensions, drawing historical comparisons to cultural shifts like the rise of Argentine music post-Falklands war.

## [How DRAM changed the world](https://www.micron.com/about/blog/memory/dram/how-dram-changed-the-world)

- Micron Technology provides diverse products and services, including DRAM (Dynamic Random-Access Memory), NAND (a type of flash memory), SSDs (Solid State Drives), and design tools.- The company caters to various sectors such as AI (Artificial Intelligence), automotive, and data centers, collaborating with partners to boost technology enablement.- Micron emphasizes innovation, sustainability, and diversity, maintaining a strong commitment to customer support and quality, while honoring Robert Dennard, the inventor of DRAM.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41919262)

- DRAM (Dynamic Random-Access Memory) transformed computing by providing a cost-effective and denser memory solution compared to SRAM (Static Random-Access Memory), which uses more transistors per bit.
- Despite requiring constant refreshing and facing issues like the rowhammer vulnerability, DRAM remains essential in computing due to its affordability and efficiency.
- The evolution of RAM, including advancements like DDR5, illustrates the continuous effort to balance speed, cost, and technological limitations, even as DRAM scaling slows.

## [Elderly dementia patients are unwittingly fueling political campaigns](https://www.cnn.com/interactive/2024/10/politics/political-fundraising-elderly-election-invs-dg/)

- A CNN investigation has uncovered that political fundraising platforms WinRed and ActBlue have been exploiting elderly dementia patients by misleading them into making donations.
- These platforms employ aggressive tactics, such as pre-checked boxes for recurring donations, which many elderly donors fail to notice, leading to significant financial losses.
- Despite numerous complaints, there has been limited regulatory action, leaving families to handle the financial consequences.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41918383)

- Elderly dementia patients are being exploited to contribute to political campaigns, often through manipulative tactics, raising ethical concerns.
- The debate on campaign finance reform persists, with some advocating for public funding to reduce private influence, but the Supreme Court has ruled against it, citing First Amendment rights.
- The situation underscores the vulnerability of the elderly to scams, emphasizing the need for enhanced protections and awareness.

## [The Dawn of a New Era for Supernova 1987a (2017)](https://science.nasa.gov/missions/chandra/the-dawn-of-a-new-era-for-supernova-1987a/)

- Supernova 1987A, observed three decades ago, remains a significant event for studying stellar life cycles, with new data released from NASA's Hubble, Chandra, and ALMA observatories.- Recent observations highlight changes in the supernova's surrounding rings and the movement of its shock wave beyond a dense gas ring, indicating a new phase in its evolution.- While neutrinos have been detected, astronomers have not yet found evidence of a black hole or neutron star resulting from the explosion, continuing the intrigue in supernova research.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41919711)

- The James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) is providing new insights into Supernova 1987A, focusing on its ring of pre-existing material energized by the explosion's ejecta.- The supernova's hourglass shape is attributed to the rotation of the original star, and researchers are investigating the potential remnants, such as a neutron star or black hole.- Speculations about cosmic events being alien constructs are mentioned, drawing inspiration from science fiction authors like Arthur C. Clarke and Alastair Reynolds.

## [Lawsuit challenges Virginia City's use of cameras for warrantless surveillance](https://ij.org/press-release/federal-lawsuit-challenges-virginia-citys-use-of-over-170-cameras-to-conduct-prolonged-warrantless-surveillance-of-entire-driving-population/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41926472)

- A lawsuit is contesting a Virginia city's use of Flock Safety's camera system for warrantless surveillance, which captures and stores images of passing cars for 30 days.- Critics argue that this practice infringes on privacy rights, while proponents believe it aids in crime-solving efforts.- The case underscores broader issues regarding mass surveillance and the need to balance public safety with individual privacy rights.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Arm is canceling Qualcomm's chip design license" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Arm%20is%20canceling%20Qualcomm's%20chip%20design%20license&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20October%2023%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
