---
slug: '/2024/04/03'
---

# 2024-04-03

## [Amazon shifts from 'Just Walk Out' to Dash Carts in grocery stores](https://gizmodo.com/amazon-reportedly-ditches-just-walk-out-grocery-stores-1851381116)

- Amazon is discontinuing its checkout-less grocery stores using "Just Walk Out" tech due to accuracy and cost issues, shifting to Dash Carts and self-checkout counters.
- The "Just Walk Out" tech remains in select Fresh stores in the UK and Amazon Go convenience stores.
- Amazon aims to enhance its footprint in the supermarket sector by exploring different technologies and approaches.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39908579)

- The discussion delved into technology and automation in grocery and retail, especially Amazon's cashier-less checkout tech.
- Key points included the pros and cons of self-checkouts, the influence of delivery services on workers and eateries, skilled versus unskilled labor importance, and ethical issues related to job automation.
- Also addressed were concerns about theft prevention, the human element in automated processes, and the cost-effectiveness of technologies like RFID in retail.

## [Renderlet: Revolutionizing Graphics with Cross-Platform WebAssembly](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39907845)

- The author previously worked at Adobe on infrastructure for applications such as Photoshop and Acrobat, dealing with the complexities of codebases across different platforms.
- They departed Adobe to establish Renderlet, a portable graphics framework based on WebAssembly, incorporating a 2D vector engine.
- An alpha version of Renderlet is forthcoming for feedback, with future plans to enhance the compiler and integration on multiple platforms.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39907845)

- Renderlet, a WebAssembly-based portable graphics framework, is developed by a former Adobe employee, enabling high-performance applications across diverse platforms and simplifying graphics module creation.
- Integration of Rive's 2D vector engine into the 3D API is demonstrated, with plans for a forthcoming public release, paving the way for potential browser-based AAA games using WebGPU.
- Discussions also cover limitations of WebGPU/WASM for gaming, advancements in web-first app development with 3D graphics, potential Electron replacement using WebAssembly, Flutter for cross-platform UI, and Haxe's benefits and limitations as a meta-compiler in creating cross-platform visual applications.

## [Deadly 7.4 Taiwan Earthquake at 34km Depth](https://earthquake.usgs.gov/earthquakes/map/?extent=16.34123,-246.42334&extent=28.51697,-223.43994)

- In the last 24 hours, 62 earthquakes of magnitude 2.5 and higher occurred, spanning across regions like California, Hawaii, Indonesia, Taiwan, Chile, Peru, and more.
- The most recent quake, a 2.9 magnitude, struck Washington, while the most potent tremor, a 7.4 magnitude, hit Taiwan.
- Across different parts of the world, seismic activities have been notable, showcasing the ongoing geological dynamics on Earth.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39912330)

- A 7.4 earthquake struck Taiwan, prompting significant shaking in Taipei and resulting in building collapses.
- Discussions surfaced on earthquake safety, tsunami forecasts, and natural disaster risks following the event.
- TSMC fabs faced disruptions, sparking debates on earthquake predictions, infrastructure damage, aftershocks, building integrity, and construction practices.

## [CityGaussian: Cutting-Edge Scene Rendering with 3D Gaussians](https://dekuliutesla.github.io/citygs/)

- CityGaussian (CityGS) revolutionizes real-time high-quality large-scale scene rendering through 3D Gaussian splatting, divide-and-conquer training, and Level-of-Detail (LoD) strategy.
- It integrates global scene prior and adaptive training data selection, leading to state-of-the-art rendering quality and real-time performance at different scales.
- CityGS outperforms other methods, delivering remarkable real-time rendering speeds of up to 36 FPS in experimental tests.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39907876)

- Gaussian splatting is explored in real-time large-scale scene rendering for 3D reconstruction tech, showing efficiency potential but sparking debates on limitations and optimizations.
- Discussions include comparisons to photogrammetry and Unreal Engine, highlighting applications and advancements in real-time rendering and GPU tech.
- Contributors share experiences and perspectives on real-time computing and graphics performance, hinting at future optimizations, research advancements, and the exciting prospect of technology release under an open source license.

## [Enhanced Python Support in Cloudflare Workers](https://blog.cloudflare.com/python-workers)

- Cloudflare Workers now support Python via Pyodide and WebAssembly, eliminating the need for extra build steps to use Python packages, allowing seamless Python and JavaScript interaction.
- Popular Python HTTP client libraries like aiohttp and httpx are compatible, and FastAPI can run in Workers using ASGI servers, aiming to improve performance and compatibility.
- Cloudflare encourages Python community feedback to enhance Pyodide support, emphasizing network security, website speed, and offering additional resources and job openings.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39905441)

- Cloudflare Workers now support Python at the Edge through Pyodide compiled to WebAssembly via Emscripten, allowing for Python implementations in the Edge environment.
- Drawbacks include being bound to a specific Python version, package resolution difficulties, and architectural challenges related to JS/V8.
- Discussions cover V8 snapshots impact, optimizing cold starts in JS apps, benefits of Wasm for Python, Cloudflare services like Durable Objects, running Jupyter notebooks in WASM, and the efficiency of V8 isolates in cloud services.

## [Eclectic Messages: Dive into a Creative Voicemail Experience](https://afterthebeep.tel/)

- The voicemail inbox contains varied content like random musings, jokes, greetings, and personal messages covering pop culture, technology, and personal emotions.
- The messages exhibit a mix of silliness and seriousness without a distinct theme, reflecting a broad range of topics.
- Visitors are welcome to engage with the open-source site by reaching out to the operator for inquiries.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39910119)

- Discussion participants fondly recall the hackability of technology in the 90s and early 00s, sharing nostalgic memories of manipulating public voicemail systems and accessing computer systems with minimal security.
- The conversation revolves around the apprehension of resource-sharing in modern tech times, suggesting the utilization of FreeSwitch or Asterisk to set up a SIP trunk and dialplan backend.
- One individual manually moderates a website for leaving voice messages, hosted by an inexpensive VoIP provider, with users commending the project's design and deliberating content filtering through AI and TTS tech.

## [Canoo's CEO Splurges on Private Jet Amidst Financial Struggles](https://techcrunch.com/2024/04/01/canoo-spent-double-its-annual-revenue-on-the-ceos-private-jet-in-2023/)

- Canoo, an EV startup, spent double its annual revenue on CEO Tony Aquila's private jet in 2023, totaling $1.7 million.
- Despite reporting $886,000 in revenue and facing significant losses, Canoo is striving to scale up electric vehicle production to prevent bankruptcy, distinguishing itself from struggling EV startups.
- Canoo aims to achieve a revenue forecast between $50 million to $100 million in 2024, highlighting its ambitious growth plans amidst financial challenges.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39906924)

- The Canoo CEO's use of his private jet, reimbursing the company while investing personal funds, sparks controversy over excessive spending and possible conflicts of interest.
- The debate extends to creating new cars versus leveraging existing platforms, the influence of electric vehicles on the automotive sector, and the ethics surrounding CEO expenses and financial choices.
- Discussions also cover broader societal issues, government policies, and personal encounters concerning COVID-19, immigration, and corporate governance.

## [Princeton Unveils "SWE-agent" for GitHub with 12% Fix Rate](https://github.com/princeton-nlp/SWE-agent)

- The SWE-agent is a software engineering tool that leverages language models to address bugs in GitHub repositories effectively, showcasing cutting-edge performance.
- It employs an Agent-Computer Interface (ACI) to enhance LM browsing and editing functionalities, offering installation guidelines and usage instructions for running the SWE-agent pipeline on GitHub issues.
- Users can evaluate the tool on the SWE-bench set, with the opportunity for contributions and community involvement via Discord, although there is a known issue related to architecture compatibility.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39907468)

- AI tools, like the SWE-agent, are being debated for bug fixing and code generation, with doubts about their efficacy.
- Concerns exist regarding the quality and security of AI-generated code, along with overdependence on AI in software development.
- Despite the potential of AI in aiding with code tasks, human supervision and knowledge are still essential for maintaining software quality and precision.

## [Visualizing Three-Body Dynamics Through Simulation](https://github.com/achristmascarl/three_body)

- The text presents a simple simulation of the three-body problem utilizing Euler's method with a small time step.
- The simulation converts the polar coordinates of the bodies into RGB values, creating visually appealing graphics.
- Starting positions are derived from periodic orbit F10 in a scientific paper, with errors becoming apparent after only 2 periods.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39909123)

- The discussion delves into simulating gravitational dynamics, chaos theory, orbital mechanics, and n-body problems, emphasizing the limitations of analytical solutions in physics.
- Participants explore the use of integrators in numerical solutions and discuss challenges in accurately modeling systems with multiple bodies, including the complexities of the three-body problem.
- The conversation highlights chaos theory, perturbation theory, and the challenges of predicting the behavior of chaotic systems, underscoring the significance of numerical simulations for accurate predictions and the gaps in physics education.

## [Demystifying SSDs: NAND Flash Technology Unpacked](https://kcall.co.uk/ssd/index.html)

- The article discusses Solid State Devices (SSDs), focusing on NAND flash technology and contrasting SSDs with traditional hard drives.
- It explains the internal components of SSDs, such as NAND flash memory and controller software, detailing data reading and writing processes.
- The text covers various aspects like different types of NAND flash memory cells, challenges of garbage collection, file deletion, TRIM commands' importance, and their impact on data recovery, while debunking misconceptions about SSD durability and performance compared to HDDs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39908146)

- The post explores the origin of the term "flash" in SSDs and EEPROM technology, dispelling the misconception of physically flashing a flashbulb over a chip.
- It compares EPROM and flash memory, highlighting the role of UV light in erasing EPROMs and delves into SSD technology, data corruption risks, and strategies for enhancing SSD reliability.
- Users contribute personal experiences and insights, emphasizing the importance of reliability, endurance, and monitoring practices for SSDs.

## [Reviving Classic 'Flying Toasters' as Interactive Screensaver](https://abhipray.com/posts/flying_toasters/)

- The author created a screensaver app for Apple Vision Pro, mimicking the iconic "Flying Toasters" screensaver from 1989, with interactive toasters and customizable features.
- The app incorporates gesture controls, 3D animations, and was developed using Swift, showcasing the author's technical learning journey and problem-solving skills.
- Feedback is requested to enhance the app's future iterations, emphasizing the author's openness to improving their creation based on user input.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39906887)

- Users are interested in nostalgic screensavers like Flying Toasters for the Vision Pro, sparking a debate on the inclusion of screen savers in the App Store.
- Concerns about price, content, and developer support are raised regarding Apple's VR technology, drawing comparisons to past successful products and the evolution of VR tech.
- Discussions include biases towards Apple, technological advancements, nostalgia for old screensavers, and enhancing the experience of classic screensavers on VR platforms.

## [Tesla Raises Model Y Prices: Duration Uncertain](https://electrek.co/2024/04/02/tesla-releases-q1-2024-deliveries-disastrous-results/)

- Tesla has recently increased the prices of the Model Y, but the duration of this price hike remains uncertain.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39906147)

- Tesla's Q1 2024 deliveries unveiled quality and maintenance problems causing customer dissatisfaction, prompting some to seek refunds under Lemon Laws.
- Rivian R1S and Mercedes EQS are rising in popularity as alternative electric vehicle choices, with recommendations to explore Toyota/Lexus or Jeep Wrangler 4xe for dependable options.
- Stellantis is ramping up efforts in the electric vehicle market, sparking discussions on Tesla's quality challenges and Elon Musk's conduct, along with the competition from other EV models.

## [Physical Activity Improves Sleep Quality, Mental Health: Study](https://news.utexas.edu/2024/04/01/move-more-sleep-better-ut-study-finds/)

- A study at The University of Texas at Austin reveals a connection between physical activity, sleep quality, and mental well-being in 82 young adults using wearable technology.
- Engaging in physical activity was linked to more profound and rejuvenating sleep, leading to enhanced mood and decreased stress levels.
- The research emphasizes the significance of regular exercise for improving both sleep quality and overall psychological health.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39908798)

- Wearable study reveals physical activity can enhance sleep quality by prolonging REM latency, supported by anecdotal evidence.
- Users share mixed experiences with Apple Watch and Garmin sleep tracking accuracy, some finding them beneficial while others causing stress.
- Discussion includes the use of magnesium for deep sleep improvement, stress monitoring, and binaural beats for stress relief and sleep assistance, emphasizing the significance of physical activity for better sleep and varied views on sleep tracking tools.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Amazon shifts from 'Just Walk Out' to Dash Carts in grocery stores" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Amazon%20shifts%20from%20'Just%20Walk%20Out'%20to%20Dash%20Carts%20in%20grocery%20stores&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20April%203%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
