---
slug: '/2024/04/07'
---

# 2024-04-07

## [Generate Cartoon Faces with Faces.js](https://zengm.com/facesjs/)

- 'faces.js is a JavaScript library designed for creating and showcasing vector-based cartoon faces with a range of facial feature options.
- Users can expand the library's feature set by duplicating it on GitHub, integrating new options.
- Installation of faces.js is achievable via npm or yarn, enabling users to exhibit randomly-generated faces in their web projects.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39954422)

- The Hacker News thread focuses on Faces.js, a JavaScript library for cartoon faces, exploring connections to Chernoff Faces and applications like animation and procedural generation.
- Discussions cover the Extism plugin for using Faces.js across various programming languages, API enhancements for random face generation, seed values for persistence, HTML file library inclusion troubleshooting, and critiques of the Silicon Valley ecosystem.
- References in the conversation span digital face projects, Fernando Botero's art, Basketball GM, and the idea of selling NFTs.

## [Exploring the Depths of xz SSHD Backdoor](https://twitter.com/bl4sty/status/1776691497506623562)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39956455)

- Twitter discussions focus on a complex backdoor attack found in the xz sshd, sparking debates on the attack's sophistication and the attackers' expertise.
- Users discuss state-sponsored groups, intentional backdoors, Apple hardware, and open-source software security, highlighting challenges in vulnerability detection.
- Speculation includes government roles in the attack, murder probes, potential backdoors in package managers and libraries, alongside conversations on Elon Musk's impact on Twitter and platform usability.

## [Asus Refunds Zenfone Buyer in UK for Missing Bootloader Unlock Tools](https://www.androidauthority.com/asus-bootloader-unlock-settlement-3431818/)

- A UK Zenfone purchaser successfully sued ASUS for not delivering the bootloader unlock tools as promised, securing a full refund of £770.
- ASUS disabled the unlocking tools, sparking discontent among customers, potentially prompting others in similar situations to pursue legal recourse.
- Despite requests for comments, ASUS has remained silent on the matter.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39951649)

- Asus customers are expressing disappointment due to the absence of bootloader unlock tools for Zenfone, resulting in bricked devices and a decline in brand trust.
- Users are debating the benefits of bootloader unlocking, security risks of custom ROMs, challenges with mobile payments, and concerns about bank security on rooted devices, while considering privacy-focused options like GrapheneOS.
- Discussions also involve considerations of legal actions against Asus, implications of cookie tracking, and the advantages of easily rootable devices such as Pixel phones, along with preferences for compact, rootable phones and differences in control between Android and iPhone.

## [Enhancing Language Model Performance through Agent Scalability](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.05120)

- Increasing the number of agents through sampling-and-voting enhances the performance of large language models, proven effective across various benchmarks and independent of complex existing methods.
- The authors conducted extensive experiments to validate their findings and have openly shared their code for replication.
- The study emphasizes the scalability of language models concerning the number of agents and its effect on task complexity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39955725)

- The article delves into the utilization of Large Language Models (LLMs) in AI and the ongoing debate about their capability to achieve Artificial General Intelligence (AGI).
- It discusses the effectiveness of multi-agent setups, the limitations of LLMs in emulating intelligence, and the obstacles in imitating human intelligence in artificial systems.
- The potential of employing multiple runs of LLMs, ensemble models, and specialized agents is examined, alongside concerns regarding the reliability and potential misuse of content generated by LLMs.

## [WinBtrfs v1.9: Bringing Btrfs to Windows with RAID and More](https://github.com/maharmstone/btrfs)

- WinBtrfs v1.9 is a Windows driver that brings Btrfs Linux filesystem capabilities to Windows XP and later versions, including RAID support, ACLs, compression, and more.
- Included in ReactOS, it necessitates WinMD for MD software RAID tools and offers features like defragmentation, Btrfs quotas, and transaction log support.
- Troubleshooting tips, bug fixes, new features, and various configuration options via registry settings and debug log support are part of the provided updates.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39956008)

- The article covers WinBtrfs, an open-source btrfs driver for Windows, along with the growing interest in io-less file system libraries for better portability and security.
- It discusses challenges in I/O operations, concerns about RAID5 in Linux BTRFS, and users' mixed experiences with BTRFS on Windows and its reliability on Linux.
- Furthermore, it compares BTRFS and extFS, highlights issues with ReFS, mentions enhancements in Windows Server 2022, and touches on cross-platform filesystem capabilities.

## [Rare Vortex Filmed by NASA Probe in Sun's Atmosphere](https://mashable.com/article/nasa-sun-footage-parker-solar-probe)

- NASA's Parker Solar Probe recorded footage of large "vortex-like structures" in the sun's atmosphere resulting from a coronal mass ejection interacting with the solar wind.
- These unique vortices, called "Kelvin-Helmholtz instabilities," offer valuable insights into predicting and comprehending CMEs, which pose risks to Earth's communication and power systems.
- Equipped with a heat shield, the probe will persist in investigating the sun's corona to advance the understanding of these occurrences.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39952111)

- NASA spacecraft recorded a vortex in the sun's atmosphere, validating plasma instability forecasts, estimated to be 3 to 13 times the size of Earth.
- Discussions centered around spacecraft velocity, energy transmission from the Sun, and navigating Venus flybys.
- The dispute regarding color camera adoption in space missions emphasized the challenges of decision-making in space exploration, advocating for monochrome cameras for scientific accuracy and cost-effectiveness, as demonstrated by the James Webb Space Telescope.

## [Loki: Enhancing Fact Verification with Open-Source Tool](https://github.com/Libr-AI/OpenFactVerification)

- Loki is an open-source tool dedicated to automating fact verification by analyzing text, generating queries for evidence search, and verifying claims, beneficial for journalists, researchers, and information verification enthusiasts.
- Its components include Decomposer, Checkworthy, Query Generator, Evidence Crawler, and ClaimVerify, allowing a comprehensive fact-checking process.
- The project offers installation guidelines, welcomes contributors, and provides a Supporter Edition with advanced features. It is licensed under MIT, and users can subscribe to the newsletter for updates and engage with the community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39951571)

- The post introduces "Loki," an open-source fact verification tool, with suggestions for enhancements like utilizing diverse data sources and improving installation.
- Xudong, the creator, intends to incorporate these recommendations based on community feedback.
- Discussions on GitHub center around a study on machine-generated text detection, concerns regarding language models for fact-checking, and the significance of accuracy and reliability in AI-based fact-checking tools.

## [VPN surge amid porn restrictions: Legal debate looms](https://www.popsci.com/technology/vpn-boom/)

- Laws mandating age verification for porn and social media are driving a notable increase in VPN adoption among users aiming to access restricted content privately.
- Platforms are proactively blocking IP addresses from regions with these regulations to prevent penalties and protect user information.
- The growing use of VPNs to bypass content restrictions might draw attention from legislators, raising the possibility of future regulations limiting VPN utilization, although legal experts suggest such measures could face constitutional challenges eventually.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39955148)

- VPN usage is increasing due to porn restrictions in some countries, with services like 1.1.1.1 and Mullvad's free DNS being used to access blocked content.
- Encrypted DNS methods are discussed for enhanced privacy, ad-blocking, and setting up devices and browsers.
- Debates include internet censorship, mandatory military service coercion, and concerns on online security and ID verification laws, alongside the balance between child protection, individual rights, government control, and VPS service costs.

## [PiVPN v4.6.0: Project Conclusion](https://github.com/pivpn/pivpn/releases/tag/v4.6.0)

- PiVPN has launched its ultimate official version, v4.6.0, marking the end of its maintenance.
- The project, managed by multiple contributors, has accomplished its goals and will not continue; repositories will be archived, and the site will stay accessible if expenses are covered.
- Following the final release, no further development will take place, including new features and bug fixes.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39953207)

- PiVPN v4.6.0 will soon be discontinued since the maintainer declines to transfer it, prompting users to explore alternatives like WireGuard and OpenVPN.
- The dialogue encompasses the sustainability of open-source initiatives, compensating contributors, engaging the community, entrusting new maintainers, project forking, and suggesting VPN plugins for different routers and devices.
- Discussions also involve ending a project due to waning interest and effort, along with apprehensions regarding transitioning control to unfamiliar community participants.

## [Lessons from 503 Days on a FOSS Project](https://mathspp.com/blog/503-days-working-full-time-on-foss-lessons-learned)

- The article details the author's 503-day full-time work on a Free and Open-Source Software (FOSS) project, focusing on lessons in establishing an online presence, engaging with users, welcoming feedback, and coordinating external contributors.
- Emphasis is placed on effective communication, establishing guidelines, and creating structures to navigate extensive codebases, with reflections stressing the significance of consistent testing and supporting others through education and writing.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39951587)

- The author reflects on 503 days of working full-time on a FOSS project, discussing challenges with contributing to other projects and unresponsive project maintainers.
- Trust issues, open-source contributions, monetization, and managing contributor expectations are emphasized in the discussion.
- The author's journey transitions from unemployment to being a Founder/CEO after securing seed funding for a cloud service linked to the FOSS project, outlining motivations and trials in the open-source community.

## [Lago: Open-Source Billing Platform Raises $22M](https://techcrunch.com/2024/03/14/lago-a-paris-based-open-source-billing-platform-banks-22m/)

- Enterprise Lago, a Paris-based startup, transitioned from marketing tools to an open source billing platform, securing a $22 million investment, targeting developers' needs in the market.
- The company's emphasis on tailored billing solutions for developers has drawn significant investors and early adopters, setting the stage for expansion in a competitive industry.
- Future plans include venturing into data analytics and payments orchestration, showcasing Lago's commitment to innovation within the billing sector.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39957607)

- Lago, a $22M funded open-source Stripe alternative, targets developers favoring open-source billing solutions despite criticism for high pricing for small businesses.
- The company sets itself apart from Stripe with a more adaptable billing system, though premium features are deemed expensive by some users.
- Discussions cover payment issues, testing, blockchain, stable cryptocurrencies, fraud protection with USDT and USDC, and the unconventional use of memes in technical documentation, along with various tech-related topics like Google's recursion joke and Paris' fintech success.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Generate Cartoon Faces with Faces.js" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Generate%20Cartoon%20Faces%20with%20Faces.js&subheading=Sunday%2C%20April%207%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
