---
slug: '/2024/04/08'
---

# 2024-04-08

## [PumpkinOS: Modernizing PalmOS for x86 and ARM](https://github.com/migueletto/PumpkinOS)

- PumpkinOS is a modern re-implementation of PalmOS, enabling the operation of contemporary applications on various architectures like x86 and ARM without needing a PalmOS ROM.
- Users need to construct PumpkinOS from the source by following platform-specific guidelines tailored for Windows and Linux systems.
- This experimental OS, licensed under GPL v3, provides basic PIM tools like AddressBook and MemoPad, with debugging supported via gdb on Windows, Linux, and WSL, offering a sneak peek at upcoming functionalities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39962023)

- Online forum users reminisced about old technology, specifically PalmOS and devices like Game Boys and Palm Pilots, discussing memory management challenges in older operating systems.
- The conversation also explored Palm's journey in the smartphone market, the evolution of their operating systems, and missed chances to compete with Apple and Android, evoking a nostalgic tone for past innovations.
- Users expressed a sense of appreciation for the technological advancements of the past, highlighting the sentimental value of older tech.

## [In-Memory PostgreSQL Mock Server for Testing: pgmock](https://github.com/stackframe-projects/pgmock)

- pgmock is an in-memory PostgreSQL mock server suitable for unit and end-to-end tests, operating on WebAssembly in Node.js and browsers.
- It offers complete PostgreSQL feature compatibility, ideal for testing scenarios, with intentions to transition to native WebAssembly for better performance.
- The tool replicates a network stack in JavaScript, allowing TCP connections on platforms restricting raw socket access; contributions are encouraged via their Discord server.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39960537)

- Developers are exploring in-memory versions of PostgreSQL for quicker end-to-end testing, debating the pros and cons of mock databases to enhance testing efficiency and developer productivity.
- Alternative solutions such as testcontainers and environment variables are being considered to handle sensitive data and modify database URLs.
- The discussion underscores the significance of mimicking actual environments for testing purposes and the benefits of reducing test execution durations.

## [Mixture-of-Depths: Efficient Compute Allocation in Transformer Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.02258)

- The paper introduces the Mixture-of-Depths method for allocating compute dynamically in transformer-based language models, optimizing efficiency and flexibility in FLOP allocation across model depth and time dimensions.
- This method caps the number of tokens participating in self-attention and MLP computations at each layer using a top-k routing mechanism, resulting in models that maintain baseline performance while demanding fewer FLOPs per forward pass and faster post-training sampling.
- It highlights the efficiency and effectiveness of the Mixture-of-Depths approach in compute allocation, demonstrating its potential in improving the performance of language models.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39960717)

- The forum discusses training models with recursive routing similar to Mixture of Experts (MoE), proposing the term "Recursive Neural Networks" for these models.
- Participants explore topics like Universal Transformers, sparse mixture of experts, and the challenges of training models with recursive processing, aiming to enhance computational efficiency and context-length for predictions.
- Analogies from the human brain and the concept of Mixture-of-Depths-and-Experts (MoDE) are examined concerning MoE, considering high memory demands and limited innovation options for smaller firms.

## [Exploring Integer Square Root Instructions in Processors](https://retrocomputing.stackexchange.com/questions/29787/did-any-processor-implement-an-integer-square-root-instruction)

- The Stack Exchange Network is a platform where developers can ask questions, share knowledge, and engage in discussions about computer programming and retrocomputing.
- A recent question on the platform delves into implementing integer square root instructions in processors, examining methods like the Quake method and binary search, along with discussions on efficiency, modern CPUs and GPUs, and trade-offs between precision and speed.
- Conversations in the comments revolve around processor instruction sets, specific instructions, and technical inquiries concerning computer systems.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39959946)

- The article delves into implementing square root estimation in AArch64 NEON processors, highlighting the URSQRTE instruction for approximating the inverse square root of fixed-precision integers.
- URSQRTE is advantageous for parallel vectorized computations in tasks such as DSP algorithms and computer graphics, involving square root algorithms, fixed-point arithmetic, and right shifts.
- The discussion includes a debate on the terminology "reciprocal" versus "inverse" in mathematical contexts and mentions historical smart techniques in old computers, with tidbits on CUDA hardware intrinsics.

## [Spotify Faces Backlash for Demonetizing Low-Stream Tracks](https://djmag.com/news/spotify-officially-demonetises-all-tracks-under-1000-streams)

- Spotify has decided to demonetize songs that have less than 1,000 streams, causing dissatisfaction among some music industry professionals.
- The platform aims to boost its income by raising prices and rolling out fresh services, which has led to an uptick in Spotify's stock value.
- United Musicians and Allied Workers are pushing for more equitable revenue sharing for artists in response to these developments.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39966743)

- Spotify's payment policy for artists, especially small indie musicians, raises concerns about fair compensation within the music industry.
- Users discuss the impact of streaming services like Spotify on indie artists and propose Bandcamp as a more supportive alternative platform.
- The conversation delves into issues with Spotify playlists, Apple Music, music licensing, ad placement on social media, and music streaming apps, offering suggestions to enhance artist compensation and explore better music listening experiences on alternative platforms.

## [D-Link NAS Devices Vulnerable to Command Injection](https://github.com/netsecfish/dlink)

- A vulnerability in D-Link NAS devices enables command injection and backdoor entry via hardcoded credentials in the nas_sharing.cgi script, permitting attackers to run unauthorized commands and potentially compromise data or disrupt services.
- Over 92,000 devices are impacted by this security flaw.
- The manufacturer has issued patches to address the issue and provide fixes for the affected devices.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39960107)

- GitHub discussion highlights security vulnerabilities in NAS devices such as command injection, backdoor accounts, ARP poisoning, and RCE attacks.
- Recommendations include using alternative firmware, VPNs, firewalls, and regular software updates to enhance security.
- Debate on cloud vs. local storage, vendor accountability for secure devices, IoT security risks, and importance of updating software for optimal security are also covered.

## [John von Neumann's Legacy at Los Alamos](https://3quarksdaily.com/3quarksdaily/2020/10/what-john-von-neumann-really-did-at-los-alamos.html)

- John von Neumann, a remarkable mathematician and physicist, made significant contributions to various fields, including economics, computer science, and nuclear weapons development.
- His work at Los Alamos during the Manhattan Project greatly influenced technology and defense strategies in the Cold War era.
- Von Neumann's expertise in shock waves, implosion, and computing technology left a lasting impact, contributing to advancements in artificial intelligence and general-purpose computers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39961910)

- The discussion on 3quarksdaily.com centers on the impact and brilliance of John von Neumann at Los Alamos, covering his math skills, contributions to nuclear bomb development, and ethical implications of his work.
- Topics explored include verifying scientific research, the link between fascism and intellectual detachment, and the significance of teaching critical thinking in education.
- The debate also examines the balance between innate talent and hard work in excelling in mathematics, the influence of figures like Ramanujan and Witten, as well as the history of nuclear bomb development in WWII, and Von Neumann's personal life and broader ethical and geopolitical themes.

## [3M settles multi-billion dollar lawsuit over PFAS in drinking water](https://www.cbsnews.com/minnesota/news/3m-pfas-drinking-water-settlement/)

- 3M settled a multi-billion dollar lawsuit regarding PFAS contamination in public drinking water systems, with payments scheduled from this summer until 2036.
- The settlement intends to compensate water providers for pollution caused by PFAS, also known as forever chemicals, which are potentially hazardous.
- In addition to monetary compensation, 3M committed to ceasing the production and utilization of PFAS by the conclusion of 2025, aiding in filtering PFAS from water systems and contamination testing to support affected communities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39960069)

- The debate centers on the accountability of corporations and individuals for causing harm, addressing environmental and public health issues like PFAS contamination.
- Suggestions include criminalizing corporate negligence, penalizing senior executives severely, and holding individuals personally liable for harmful actions.
- Key points discussed are wealth distribution, regulating harmful substances, corporate accountability, and systemic changes necessary to avoid future harm, underscoring the call for better safeguards, ethical choices, and individual responsibility in the business sphere.

## [Writer's Sleep Study: How Sleep Affects Blog Posts](https://breckyunits.com/sleepWriting.html)

- The author analyzes how their writing quality is linked to sleep by studying 2,500 nights of sleep data and 58 blog posts spanning 7 years.
- Posts crafted with less than 7 hours of sleep tend to be more concise but less thorough according to the findings.
- The author acknowledges the significance of platforms like Git for blogging, peer review for enhancing content quality, and wearable sensors for monitoring sleep patterns.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39960645)

- The blog post delves into the connection between sleep quality and productivity, featuring personal stories about insomnia's impact on work performance.
- It highlights the link between sleep deprivation and cognitive difficulties, while also mentioning the potential advantages of fatigue for productivity.
- Suggestions for extracting data from Apple devices, discussions on mental well-being, cognitive functions, and the risks of sleep deprivation are included, emphasizing the significance of sufficient rest and avoiding detrimental behaviors to health.

## [Google Public DNS Boosts Security Against Cache Poisoning](https://security.googleblog.com/2024/03/google-public-dnss-approach-to-fight.html)

- Google Public DNS blog highlights the significance of security in the Domain Name System (DNS) and their strategies to combat cache poisoning attacks.
- Implemented measures include DNS Cookies, case randomization, and DNS-over-TLS to enhance user protection and thwart potential attacks.
- The goal is to offer a more secure and dependable DNS resolution service for global users.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39960125)

- Google Public DNS is actively fighting cache poisoning attacks using TTL records and security protocols in collaboration with Cloudflare.
- The effectiveness of DNSSEC and ADoT in preventing attacks is debated, discussing adoption rates and cost-effectiveness against other security solutions.
- Geoff Huston's change in promoting DNSSEC is highlighted due to deployment challenges and validation issues in the DNS security landscape.

## [Enhance Text Analysis with SentenceTransformers Framework](https://www.sbert.net/index.html)

- SentenceTransformers is a Python framework that creates advanced embeddings for sentences, text, and images, aiding in tasks like semantic textual similarity and paraphrase mining.
- It is built on PyTorch and Transformers, enabling simple fine-tuning of models for various applications.
- The framework provides detailed documentation for installation, usage, training, evaluation, and more.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39959790)

- The text delves into utilizing SentenceTransformers to create embeddings and the difficulties associated with cosine similarity scores.
- Recommendations involve training classifiers on these embeddings, studying pair-wise distances, and employing active learning methods.
- Varied models such as MiniLM are reviewed for effectiveness, addressing concerns about noise in embeddings and the advantages of open-source tools like SentenceTransformers.

## [Groq Transitions from Hardware Sales to AI Cloud Services](https://www.eetimes.com/groq-ceo-we-no-longer-sell-hardware/)

- Groq, previously a data center AI chip startup, now offers AI cloud services through GroqCloud, attracting 70,000 users and hosting 19,000 new applications.
- Collaborating with corporations like Saudi Aramco, Groq is expanding its reach and enhancing its services for large-scale implementations.
- The company is developing its next-generation chip and striving to compete with major cloud providers in computational efficiency and effectiveness.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39964590)

- Groq CEO shifts focus away from selling hardware to prioritize speed and low latency in inference processing, earning user accolades, particularly in natural language processing.
- Debate ensues on the significance of latency, the role of open-source models, and the value of specialized hardware, amid discussions on challenges in cloud computing sales and competition in the supercomputing sector.
- Groq's deployment methods with clients such as Saudi Aramco, scalability concerns, and services availability are examined, with mentions of alternative solutions like Tenstorrent.

## [Xemu: Play Original Xbox Games on Windows, macOS, and Linux](https://xemu.app/)

- The xemu project is a free and open-source emulator for the original Xbox that enables users to play Xbox games on Windows, macOS, and Linux.
- It offers features like low-level emulation, controller support, save states, render scaling, and networking capabilities, with robust compatibility with the original Xbox hardware.
- Users can enhance the project by improving compatibility reports and participating in the lively Discord community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39962184)

- The debate centers on original Xbox limitations, compared to modern platforms like Xbox One, and the influence of Xbox GamePass on the gaming community.
- Users criticize Xbox for not focusing on backward compatibility updates, overly emphasizing GamePass, and facing reputation issues from leadership decisions.
- The discussion delves into the evolution of Xbox consoles, difficulties in emulating the original Xbox hardware, and favorite games, evoking nostalgia and gratitude among users.

## [Homemade Vegemite: A DIY Adventure in Australian Spread](https://daveon.design/adventures-making-vegemite.html)

- The article explores Vegemite, a unique Australian spread, along with similar alternatives like Marmite, Promite, Cenovits, and Vitam-R.
- It explains the process of creating a DIY Vegemite using ingredients like yeast slurry, malt wort, and nutritional yeast, resulting in a taste close to Marmite but slightly bitter.
- Variations like utilizing different beer slurries or incorporating celery salt and onion powder were tested, highlighting similarities to Vegemite/Marmite with some flavor and texture distinctions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39960788)

- The conversation on daveon.design explores the similarities among Vegemite, Marmite, miso paste, and Norwegian brunost, discussing taste preferences and ways to savor the spreads.
- Opinions vary on the flavor of Vegemite and Marmite, with some considering them salty and others praising their intense taste profiles.
- Participants share anecdotes, cooking tips, and compare various spread brands during the engaging discussion on different spreads.

## [RPGP: Secure OpenPGP Implementation in Rust](https://github.com/rpgp/rpgp)

- rPGP is a Rust-based OpenPGP implementation following RFC4880 and RFC2440, with Autocrypt 1.1 support and a minimal API, used by Delta Chat after a security audit.
- It differs from Sequoia concerning licensing, features, and exclusive use of pure Rust for cryptographic functions, requiring Rust 1.70+ and licensed under MIT or Apache 2.0.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39961994)

- The conversation highlights PGP's limitations in end-to-end encryption, especially in email systems, in contrast to more modern platforms like Signal and WhatsApp.
- Concerns about trust, compatibility, and security are discussed, along with the challenges of integrating privacy features into existing email systems.
- The dialogue explores issues with GPG, such as slow performance and complexity, debates on DIY cryptography, and security vulnerabilities, emphasizing the significance of constant-time code for cryptographic security.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="PumpkinOS: Modernizing PalmOS for x86 and ARM" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=PumpkinOS%3A%20Modernizing%20PalmOS%20for%20x86%20and%20ARM&subheading=Monday%2C%20April%208%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
