---
slug: '/2024/04/09'
---

# 2024-04-09

## [Llm.c – Train Large Language Models in Pure C/CUDA](https://github.com/karpathy/llm.c)

- The document details a straightforward C/CUDA implementation for training massive language models, such as GPT-2, without relying on extensive frameworks like PyTorch.
- The author focuses on enhancing the implementation's speed and efficiency, offering guidelines for dataset acquisition, weight initialization, and model training in C, alongside unit tests and tutorials for accuracy assurance.
- The project is open-source under the MIT license, facilitating accessibility and collaboration in the tech community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39973467)

- The Github discussion delves into diverse topics like machine learning, GPU memory design, GPT-2 for forecasting, PyTorch limitations, and alternative GPUs.
- Enthusiastic users admire Karpathy's input while exchanging insights on technical challenges, improvements, and language model training with Google's TPUs.
- The conversation explores memory capacity, access methods, optimizing ML libraries, varying data structures, programming languages, and automated resource management in coding.

## [Lore Harp McGovern: Rise, Fall & Legacy in Tech](https://every.to/the-crazy-ones/the-woman-that-tech-history-forgot)

- Lore Harp McGovern founded Vector Graphic, a prosperous computer company, but later faced challenges leading to bankruptcy, overshadowed by male pioneers despite her tech industry and philanthropic contributions.
- The newsletter features uplifting tales like Gareth's and daily essays covering diverse subjects.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39970915)

- Women in the tech industry encounter challenges and discrimination, especially in male-dominated fields, such as technology.
- Success stories like Lore Harp McGovern's microcomputer empire are overshadowed by gender bias, evident in comparisons to male figures like Steve Jobs.
- Emphasizing the significance of diversity programs and combating bias in hiring and workplace culture is crucial for fostering more inclusive tech environments.

## [After AI Triumph, Go Players Elevate Decision-making and Creativity](https://www.henrikkarlsson.xyz/p/go)

- Professional Go players faced a skill plateau until AI, notably AlphaGo, showcased superior abilities, leading to improved decision-making and creativity among players.
- The trend shift in Go occurred 18 months post-AlphaGo, aligning with the launch of Leela Zero, an open-source Go engine, which, along with tools like Lizzie, provided access to AI reasoning, fostering input learning and unleashing human creativity.
- The relationship between humans and AIs in competitive fields, witnessed in chess and Go, demonstrates the potential for AI to elevate human skills and drive progress beyond existing boundaries.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39972990)

- The impact of AI on games like Go and chess is discussed, focusing on how computer analysis aids players in enhancing their gameplay.
- Recommendations are made for introducing a promotion and relegation system in chess to promote more aggressive gameplay.
- The debate also addresses the potential of AI in entertainment, art, and music creation, stressing the significance of human creativity and judgment across different domains.

## [Combatting Malicious Notepad++ Impersonator](https://notepad-plus-plus.org/news/help-to-take-down-parasite-site/)

- The website https://notepad.plus/ is masquerading as the official Notepad++ site, housing malicious ads that threaten user safety.
- It intends to steer users from the authentic site, notepad-plus-plus.org, to profit from deceptive tactics.
- Users should report the site as harmful to safeguard the Notepad++ community and ensure a secure online space.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39968761)

- The website notepad-plus-plus.org is under fire for deceitful tactics, like redirecting users to the official Notepad++ site, raising fears of sketchy download links.
- Users worry about the site's security implications and ad-driven profit motives, sparking discussions on its potential fraudulent behavior.
- Debates on malicious intent arise, emphasizing the significance of sourcing software downloads only from official channels to mitigate risks associated with deceptive websites and emphasizing domain control and brand protection.

## [OLMo 7B: Empowering AI Research with Open Language Models](https://blog.allenai.org/hello-olmo-a-truly-open-llm-43f7e7359222?gi=760105621962)

- The Allen Institute for AI has launched OLMo 7B, an open large language model framework, facilitating researchers and developers in advancing language model science collectively.
- OLMo includes pretraining data, training code, and evaluation suites for precise and sustainable AI research, aiming to promote transparency and collaboration.
- Available on Hugging Face and GitHub, OLMo encourages responsible AI technology development for the benefit of the AI research community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39974374)

- The debate centers on the licensing and openness of the OLMo language model from allenai.org, emphasizing the need for a Derivative Impact Report for derivative works and highlighting the Pile dataset as an alternative.
- Legal and ethical concerns regarding the Pile dataset, training models on AMD with Databricks, potential risks of closed AI systems, and the call for more open and transparent AI systems are explored.
- The conversation delves into bias, transparency, copyright protection, and finding a balance between artistic freedom and ethical considerations in model development, referencing competitors like Llama and comparing to closed models by companies like OpenAI and Anthropic.

## [Vala: Object-Oriented Programming for GNOME Technologies](https://vala.dev/)

- Vala is an object-oriented programming language seamlessly compatible with GNOME tools like GObject and GTK, offering high-level abstractions and rapid native binary compilation.
- It facilitates the utilization of pre-existing C code, making it optimal for crafting GUI apps, command-line tools, and libraries, boasting vibrant support from the open-source community.
- Users can delve into Vala projects, engage in community discussions on platforms like Discord and Matrix, with the current version standing at 0.56.13 and continuous development.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39969131)

- The conversation delves into the Vala Programming Language, its role in creating GTK and other framework applications, notably in projects like Frida and Dino, amid debates on moving towards more portable solutions like Electron and challenges with frameworks like Sciter.
- Discussions also touch on alternatives such as Qt and AvaloniaUI, focusing on reducing code size, integrating various GUI toolkits, and comparing memory management and ABI compatibility with languages like Swift, C#, and Java.
- Users express both nostalgia for Vala's simplicity in GTK app development and interest in potential upgrades, like GNOME possibly embracing modern technologies like Flutter, highlighting Vala's unique aspects, challenges, and areas for enhancement in desktop app development within the GNOME community.

## [Blocky: DNS Proxy & Ad-Blocker for Local Networks](https://0xerr0r.github.io/blocky/)

- Blocky Blocky is a DNS proxy and ad-blocker designed for local networks, developed in Go, offering features like filtering DNS queries with external lists, individualized black and white lists for each client group, advanced DNS setup choices, support for multiple protocols, robust security and privacy measures, integration capabilities, and a user-friendly interface.
- The platform prioritizes simplicity, performance, and community assistance, ensuring no user data collection and providing open-source code.
- Blocky Blocky operates with a strong emphasis on user privacy, making it a reliable choice for managing DNS queries on local networks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39968103)

- Discussion focuses on DNS blocking tools like Blocky, Pi-hole, AdGuard Home, and dnscrypt-proxy for boosting internet security and privacy.
- Users talk about ad-blocking techniques such as network-level blockers, browser extensions, and adblock-enabled YouTube alternatives.
- Challenges arise with some websites malfunctioning due to ad-blocking, but solutions like Pi-hole Remote and browser extensions offer temporary disablement options, showcasing the pros and cons of using various DNS blocking tools for enhanced internet browsing and network security.

## [Android's Find My Device: Locate Devices and Items with Ease](https://blog.google/products/android/android-find-my-device/)

- The new Find My Device feature on Android enables users to locate lost devices and items by leveraging a vast network of over a billion Android devices.
- It provides multiple tracking options such as offline location tracking, Bluetooth tag support, proximity tracking, integration with Nest devices, and the capability to share accessories with contacts.
- The feature guarantees security, privacy, and works with devices operating on Android 9 and above, with forthcoming updates for headphones from brands like JBL and Sony to integrate into the Find My Device network.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39971673)

- The forum discusses various tracking devices such as Tile and Apple AirTags, comparing their features, limitations, and anti-theft effectiveness.
- Users address interoperability challenges among tech companies, privacy issues with location tracking, and the call for industry standardization.
- Suggestions include utilizing UWB technology, incorporating hardware switches for privacy control, and enhancing device tracking systems while expressing concerns about market domination by Apple and Google stifling innovation for smaller businesses.

## [How Digital Equipment Corp. Engineers Saved Ethernet](https://spectrum.ieee.org/how-dec-engineers-saved-ethernet)

- Engineers at Digital Equipment Corp. created a revolutionary learning bridge technology enhancing LAN performance and preserving Ethernet.
- Alan Kirby and Mark Kempf played key roles in developing this innovative technology.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39968382)

- The conversation delves into diverse networking topics such as Ethernet technology evolution, network speed upgrades, and debates on transitioning from IPv4 to IPv6 or even IPv7.
- It also discusses challenges like expanding address space, site-local addresses in IPv6, and the pros and cons of adopting new networking protocols.
- Overall, the discussion highlights the intricacies and factors to consider when enhancing and fine-tuning networking infrastructure.

## [Cloudflare Enhances Resilience After Data Center Power Outage](https://blog.cloudflare.com/major-data-center-power-failure-again-cloudflare-code-orange-tested)

- Cloudflare faced a significant power outage at their Portland data center, the second within five months, but thanks to enhancements, they recovered faster with minimal disruptions to services.
- The outage resulted from overly sensitive overcurrent protection in switchboards, now rectified, as the team prioritizes finalizing the resilience program for the Analytics platform to avoid manual interventions and teams up with Flexential for operational enhancements.
- Cloudflare remains committed to delivering robust services, creating job prospects, and striving for operational excellence.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39969448)

- Cloudflare experienced a significant data center power failure, leading to talks about deploying rack-level UPS systems for future incident prevention.
- Emphasis was placed on power redundancy, equipment maintenance, and safety in third-party-managed data centers, following Cloudflare's outage history and mitigation strategies.
- Discussions explored security risks, single points of failure, and solutions like Kubernetes clusters, geographic taints, tolerations, and the possibility of multiple clusters over a single worldwide cluster for improved reliability in distributed architectures.

## [Reverst: Exposing Services Securely with Reverse Tunnels in Go](https://github.com/flipt-io/reverst)

- Reverst is a load-balanced reverse-tunnel server and Go server-client library based on QUIC and HTTP/3, facilitating service exposure on the public internet from restricted networks.
- It supports multiple service instances behind one tunnel, where the tunnel binary is placed on the public internet, and client servers join target tunnel groups.
- To use Reverst, run the tunnel server and example server, and send requests via the tunnel using curl.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39970501)

- The post introduces Reverst, a project using reverse tunnels in Go over HTTP/3 and QUIC, beneficial for debugging when dealing with frequently changing IP addresses and interrupted long-lived connections.
- Alternative tools like Zerotier, wireguard, and wstunnel are also mentioned as options to achieve similar objectives.
- It provides suggestions for enhancements, references related projects, and additional resources for further exploration.

## [Securing KDE6: Addressing D-Bus and Polkit Vulnerabilities](https://security.opensuse.org/2024/04/02/kde6-dbus-polkit.html)

- The article examines the security implications of D-Bus and Polkit in the KDE6 release, focusing on vulnerabilities and enhancements in these components.
- It emphasizes the issues related to insecure D-Bus services in legacy packages, the need for secure authentication in Polkit actions, and risks associated with file system operations in KDE components.
- Recommendations include using the KAuth framework, addressing security risks from D-Bus services running with root privileges, and adopting secure practices like dropping privileges and using file descriptors over paths in KDE operations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39968384)

- The KDE6 release sparks discussions on security, focusing on D-Bus and Polkit vulnerabilities, and users are concerned about PolKit agents' vulnerability and the lack of information in privilege escalation dialogs.
- Comparisons are drawn with Android and Windows security features, highlighting the significance of design for robust security measures.
- Users also delve into the evolution of KDE, enhancements in Plasma Mobile, and the lightweight nature of Plasma 5, sharing experiences in switching desktop environments and exploring potential improvements in Linux systems like alternative IPC and capability delegation protocols for simpler solutions.

## [Stow Project Seeks Co-maintainer for Sustainability](https://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/index.php?65569)

- The Stow project's current maintainer is looking for a co-maintainer due to sustainability issues, requiring proficiency in Perl, familiarity with Stow, skills in code reviews, git, and open-source projects, strong communication, and effective coordination.
- The new co-maintainer must commit effectively, avoiding offering help without follow-up, with flexibility in the commitment level.
- Those interested are urged to get involved by reviewing and submitting pull requests (PRs).

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39973296)

- Users are debating the utility of GNU Stow in handling packages and dotfiles, alongside alternative tools such as YADM, Chezmoi, and Nix.
- Opinions vary on the effectiveness of Stow for package management, leading to discussions on different approaches to configuring software installations on Unix systems.
- The conversation delves into managing symlinks, software versions, the use of Perl scripts, and the longevity of programming languages.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Llm.c – Train Large Language Models in Pure C/CUDA" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Llm.c%20%E2%80%93%20Train%20Large%20Language%20Models%20in%20Pure%20C%2FCUDA&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20April%209%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
