---
slug: '/2024/04/10'
---

# 2024-04-10

## [Physicist Peter Higgs, Discoverer of Higgs Boson, Dies at 94](https://www.theguardian.com/science/2024/apr/09/peter-higgs-physicist-who-discovered-higgs-boson-dies-aged-94)

- Nobel laureate physicist Peter Higgs, known for proposing the Higgs boson particle, has died at 94.
- His theory was validated in 2012 at CERN's Large Hadron Collider, leading to his Nobel Prize in 2013.
- Higgs, who primarily worked at Edinburgh University, is remembered for his humble nature and substantial influence on particle physics.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39981034)

- Physicist Peter Higgs, renowned for discovering the Higgs boson, has passed away, prompting reflections on his scientific contributions.
- The discourse emphasizes the crucial role of science communication and science communicators like Carl Sagan and Neil deGrasse Tyson.
- The significance of the Higgs boson in validating the Standard Model of particle physics, its potential technological applications, and debates surrounding the economic value of fundamental scientific research are highlighted in the discussion.

## [Beeper Joins Automattic to Enhance Chat Services](https://blog.beeper.com/2024/04/09/beeper-is-joining-automattic/)

- Beeper has been acquired by Automattic, known for backing WordPress and WooCommerce, signaling a new era in their quest for the optimal chat app.
- The merger will maintain Beeper's independence, with a focus on preserving user privacy through encryption and offering the service to all without waitlists.
- Texts.com users can expect no abrupt alterations; the teams and products will gradually integrate while upholding their dedication to local data processing.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39980268)

- Automattic acquires Beeper and Texts.com to improve messaging services, leading to discussions on Beeper's open-source future and integration with other platforms.
- Users show a mix of optimism and skepticism about the acquisition, citing worries about data security, app stability, pricing alterations, and feature changes.
- Discourse delves into unified messaging platforms, privacy challenges, and managing multiple messaging apps efficiently.

## [Social Media's Impact on Teen Mental Health](https://www.afterbabel.com/p/phone-based-childhood-cause-epidemic)

- The debate on social media's impact on teenage mental health is ongoing, with researchers divided on whether it minimally harms or causes mental health issues.
- Evidence indicates a potential causal link between heavy social media use, especially among girls, and mental illness in teenagers.
- Proposed solutions include restricting social media access, implementing phone-free schools, and addressing broader societal factors to enhance teen mental health.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39983233)

- The text highlights the detrimental impact of social media on mental health, especially concerning teenagers and children.
- It underscores the importance of parental involvement in establishing boundaries and promoting personal accountability when using social media.
- The debate delves into balancing free speech with regulation, advocating for offline activities to mitigate the negative effects of excessive online engagement.

## [PriceLevel: Unveiling Companies' SaaS Costs](https://www.pricelevel.com/)

- Christine, a Project Manager, and Steven, an engineer, have developed a platform showcasing actual prices companies pay for software, focusing on transparency for buyers.
- They are providing Talkdesk access to Show HN users without the need for sign-in or upgrades to gather feedback.
- Users can visit https://www.pricelevel.com/showhn to explore the site and share their thoughts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39980222)

- PriceLevel, founded by Christine and Steven, aims to offer transparency in SaaS pricing, assisting users in understanding what other companies pay and aiding in negotiations.
- Debates center on the legality and ethics of sharing pricing data, treating pricing as trade secrets, and the repercussions of preventing customers from divulging pricing information.
- Discussions include privacy strategies, protecting buyer identities, and the advantageous role of clear pricing in streamlining the sales process, despite concerns about contract complexity and data accuracy.

## [Intel Unveils Gaudi 3 AI Accelerator for Enhanced AI Compute](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/newsroom/news/vision-2024-gaudi-3-ai-accelerator.html)

- Intel unveiled the Intel Gaudi 3 AI accelerator at the Intel Vision event, promising 4x AI compute for BF16 with enhanced memory and networking bandwidth.
- The accelerator targets generative AI gaps in finance, manufacturing, and healthcare, offering open software and scalable systems for enterprises.
- It boasts AI-specific compute engines, increased memory for LLM capacity, and scalable design, enhancing performance for GenAI models, with OEM availability in Q2 2024 and general release in Q3 2024.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39981032)

- The discussion delves into Intel's Gaudi 3 AI Accelerator, highlighting the use of the open accelerator module interface and comparisons with AMD's products.
- It covers collaboration with other companies, GPU market competition, pricing, performance, stability issues, and software support for Intel's Gaudi 3.
- The key points include the high-speed communication network architecture, stability concerns related to AMD's ROCm repositories, and the potential advantages and drawbacks of leveraging Intel's Gaudi 3 for machine learning and AI applications.

## [Cow Magnets: Preventing Hardware Disease in Cattle](https://www.stanfordmagnets.com/cow-magnets.html)

- Stanford Magnets is a reputable supplier of neodymium, SmCo, AlNiCo, and ferrite magnets, offering custom solutions and assemblies for diverse applications.
- They stand out for providing cow magnets that help prevent hardware disease in cattle by attracting and deterring metal ingestion.
- With decades of experience since the 1990s, Stanford Magnets delivers top-notch magnetic products at competitive prices.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39982024)

- Cow magnets are used to prevent cows from ingesting metal objects, avoiding symptoms of hardware disease.
- The discussion includes personal stories, economic differences in vet vs. human medicine, and challenges in veterinary care.
- Topics cover end-of-life decisions for animals, recovery, and sterilization of cow magnets post-slaughter.

## [Fairbuds: Sustainable In-ear Tech with Replaceable Batteries](https://shop.fairphone.com/fairbuds)

- Fairbuds are premium, repairable earbuds with replaceable batteries, active noise cancellation, and a dedicated app for customization, designed to last and made with fair and recycled materials.
- They come with a three-year warranty, are IP54 sweat, and water-resistant, aligning with climate-conscious and electronic waste-neutral principles.
- Fairphone's mission is to create a sustainable consumer electronics market, challenging the industry's short-term approach with Fairbuds.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39981550)

- Fairphone launched Fairbuds, in-ear headphones with replaceable batteries, shifting from non-repairable TWS earbuds sold for three years.
- User conversations revolve around sustainability, the comeback of headphone jacks for enhanced audio quality, and using USB-C headphones with individual DAC as substitutes.
- Topics include low-cost Bluetooth headphones, Sony linkbuds, the removal of headphone jacks in devices, the shift to USB-C for audio, wired vs. wireless headphone reliability, environmental impacts, and user comfort, sound quality, and feature preferences.

## [Go-MySQL-Server: MySQL-Compatible Engine in Go](https://github.com/dolthub/go-mysql-server)

- go-mysql-server is a MySQL-compatible database engine written in Go, enabling users to query data sources using the MySQL dialect and wire protocol, including an in-memory database option.
- The main production database supported is Dolt, featuring Git-style versioning, aiming to seamlessly replace MySQL with compatibility for various aspects like client libraries and functions.
- Users can set up an in-memory test server, create custom backends by implementing specific interfaces, and access technical documentation, contributor guidelines, and security policy; licensed under Apache License 2.0.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39983490)

- Dolt is a MySQL-compatible database engine written in Go, offering features like replication, versioning, and performance optimization.
- Discussions are ongoing on expanding Dolt's compatibility to Postgres, developing a version control system for mainstream databases, and the potential release of Doltgres, a PostgreSQL-compatible version of Dolt.
- The go-mysql-server library, used by Dolt, enables support for triggers and stored procedures, but faces concurrency limitations. Dolt is recommended for testing interactions without a running server and can serve as a connection proxy.

## [Google Axion Processors: Google's Arm-based CPUs for Data Centers](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/compute/introducing-googles-new-arm-based-cpu/)

- Google Cloud has launched Google Axion Processors, new Arm-based CPUs tailored for data centers, boasting high performance, energy efficiency, and advanced features.
- These processors, based on Arm Neoverse V2 CPU, deliver notable performance enhancements for general workloads while prioritizing energy efficiency and sustainability, aligning with Google's carbon-free energy objectives.
- Axion processors ensure seamless application compatibility, interoperability, and are supported across various Google Cloud services, garnering positive feedback from industry partners and customers anticipating improved performance, efficiency, and sustainability benefits.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39978577)

- Google introduces Axion Processors, Arm-based CPUs for data centers, comparing them to AWS Graviton instances, raising concerns about vendor lock-in and environmental impact.
- The move creates challenges for Intel, with TSMC's pivotal role, and Intel's venture into the foundry business, potentially impacting major buyers such as Apple and Nvidia.
- Discussions encompass performance claims, skepticism towards Google's new processor, Apple's implications, SQL database products, cloud provider benchmarking, and potential migration of Apple off AWS, emphasizing the need for trust in tech products and compatibility with customized hardware.

## [Why Windows 98 Setup Looks Dated: A Nostalgic Throwback (2020)](https://retrocomputing.stackexchange.com/questions/14903/why-does-part-of-the-windows-98-setup-program-look-older-than-the-rest)

- The post explores the multi-stage setup process of Windows 98 on Stack Overflow, a renowned online community for developers.
- The setup involves running the initial phase in a DOS environment, followed by a minimal Windows 3.1 installation, and concluding in the full Windows 98 system for personalization.
- This multi-step setup was necessary back then due to disk space restrictions and technical limitations, showcasing the evolution of operating system installation processes over time.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39985630)

- Retrocomputing.stackexchange.com discusses various topics including installing older operating systems, Windows Explorer history, and DOS file naming conventions.
- Users share nostalgia for older Windows versions, admire Windows 2000 stability, and debate preserving old UI features for compatibility in the era of Windows 11.
- The forum also delves into SQL code readability, UI design progression, and challenges stemming from imperfect graphics drivers in retro computing.

## [ScreenAI: Vision-Language Model for UI and Infographics](https://research.google/blog/screenai-a-visual-language-model-for-ui-and-visually-situated-language-understanding/)

- The Blog ScreenAI introduces ScreenAI, a vision-language model excelling in UI and infographic tasks, backed by three new datasets for evaluation.
- ScreenAI, utilizing a PaLI-based architecture and a pix2struct patching strategy, demonstrates strong performance on diverse tasks, competing well with similar-sized models.
- The model undergoes two-stage training and fine-tuning with public QA, summarization, and navigation datasets, showing improved performance with scale, hinting at potential for further enhancements through research.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39981623)

- OpenAdapt researchers have introduced a new visual Language Model (LLM) named ScreenAI to enhance user interface (UI) and visually-situated language comprehension by combining SAM with GPT-4.
- Potential issues like deceptive UIs targeting AI agents, concerns about Google's captcha, and the emergence of novel ad-filtering tech are discussed, alongside comparisons with GPT-4-turbo and Claude 3 Opus vision.
- The conversation explores the model's practicality, use in software automation, possible failure scenarios, and the unveiling of new datasets for assessment, expressing enthusiasm and inquisitiveness toward future AI and UI advancements.

## [Creating Reliable AI Systems: Tips and Strategies](https://www.rainforestqa.com/blog/building-reliable-systems-out-of-unreliable-agents)

- The blog discusses building reliable systems using AI agents despite their inherent unreliability, focusing on prompt engineering, Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG), model fine-tuning, and complementary agents.
- It emphasizes the limitations of current language models, offers tips for enhancing reliability through prompt engineering and response evaluation, and stresses observability, monitoring, and user feedback.
- Future plans involve continuous enhancement via customer feedback, alternative models, and optimizing reliability, speed, and cost, mentioning upcoming topics like engineering hiring processes and on-call scheduling optimization.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39984209)

- The article explores creating dependable systems with unreliable agents, particularly in AI-assisted QA, with insights on utilizing techniques like few-shot prompting and priming for more consistent answers.
- Readers contribute experiences and suggestions, such as employing threatening or incentivizing prompts to enhance accuracy, emphasizing the significance of experimentation and adaptation when utilizing various agents and models in production settings.
- The discussion underscores the critical role of flexibility and testing when collaborating with AI systems, showcasing the evolving landscape of AI deployment.

## [SSSL - Wii U SSL Bypass Exploit_PATCH_5.5.5.](https://github.com/PretendoNetwork/SSSL)

- The SSSL tool enables a hackless SSL bypass on the Wii U by exploiting a bug in the SSL verification process introduced in firmware version 5.5.5.
- This bug permits the forging of SSL certificates, exploiting a loophole in how the Wii U handles CA common names.
- Users can install and utilize the tool with NodeJS without requiring homebrew or custom firmware, thanks to the method used to patch existing Nintendo CA certificates.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39977862)

- The SSSL exploit enables Wii U users to connect to custom servers post-Nintendo's official server shutdown by bypassing SSL.
- Pretendo is working on custom servers for the 3DS and Wii U, possibly waiting until after Nintendo's server shutdown to prevent patching.
- Despite Nintendo's reputation for patching exploits, the eShop remains operational for users to download their bought games, as the community favors device control over what is deemed as overly aggressive DRM.

## [Learn PS1 Programming with MIPS Assembly and C](https://pikuma.com/courses/ps1-programming-mips-assembly-language)

- The course provides 25 hours of on-demand video content and downloadable resources, with lifetime access and mobile/desktop compatibility.
- Upon completion, a certificate is awarded, and payment options include Credit Card or PayPal, with a 14-day money-back guarantee.
- The course was last updated in April 2024, ensuring the content remains current and relevant.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39982011)

- Users are sharing resources and tips for a PS1 Programming Course focusing on MIPS Assembly and C, as well as running builds on unmodified PS1 or PS2 consoles using homebrew tools.
- Suggestions for future courses on machine learning, math-related topics, and retro gaming technology are being made within the discussion.
- The author is involved in a decompilation project for a game, encountering hurdles related to legal issues, while conversations cover PS1 development kits, game engines, online course platforms, and DRM-free downloads.

## [Exploring Async Rust in Zed Editor on macOS](https://zed.dev/blog/zed-decoded-async-rust)

- The article explores the series Zed Decoded, focusing on async Rust usage in the Zed editor on macOS.
- Zed utilizes Grand Central Dispatch and the async_task crate to schedule tasks off the main thread for high performance and responsiveness.
- Examples include efficient project file searches without blocking the main thread, with future articles set to cover data structures in the Zed editor.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39981945)

- The Zed blog offers insights into Rust, highlighting ownership in GUI applications and the development of the Zed text editor for collaborative coding.
- Topics covered include speed, responsiveness, monetization, compatibility, and challenges in platform selection for app development.
- Discussions encompass Zed's features, critiques, potential enhancements, and competition with VSCode, as well as aspects like remote development, monetization approaches, and platform adaptability.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Physicist Peter Higgs, Discoverer of Higgs Boson, Dies at 94" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Physicist%20Peter%20Higgs%2C%20Discoverer%20of%20Higgs%20Boson%2C%20Dies%20at%2094&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20April%2010%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
