---
slug: '/2024/04/12'
---

# 2024-04-12

## [Creating a 3D Printer Filament Sensor for PhD Project](https://paulbupejr.com/developing-the-optigap-sensor-system/)

- The author created a sensor during their electrical engineering PhD, emphasizing simplicity and functionality, with a passion for developing GUIs for sensor data using pyqtgraph.
- They argue that obtaining a PhD can be satisfying and manageable within three years with appropriate mentorship.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40003710)

- The author designed a novel sensor using 3D printer filament in their electrical engineering PhD research, emphasizing simplicity and functionality, focusing on creating graphic user interfaces (GUIs) for visualizing sensor data.
- Discussions on sensor technology, fiber optics, and other alternative technologies, shared on HN, delved into applications like robotics, proprioception, bend detection, and wave form detection for location data.
- Participants valued the innovative sensor projects, diving into topics such as challenges in completing a PhD, measuring golf swing movements, and shape sensing technology, alongside discussions on flexible robots for rescue missions, the use of TPU in new tech, and PhD program durations across academic fields and countries.

## [Apple warns users globally of rare mercenary spyware threats](https://techcrunch.com/2024/04/10/apple-warning-mercenary-spyware-attacks/)

- Apple has issued threat notifications to iPhone users in 92 countries regarding possible mercenary spyware attacks, with similar alerts sent to users in over 150 countries starting from 2021.
- The spyware alerts are timely, coinciding with election preparations in various nations, amidst warnings from tech companies about increased state-sponsored attempts to sway outcomes.
- These mercenary spyware attacks are classified as uncommon and advanced, prompting Apple to leverage internal threat intelligence to identify and combat such threats, emphasizing the importance of users not aiding attackers in avoiding detection.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40002987)

- Apple has warned users in 92 countries about potential targeted spyware attacks based on phone numbers, even potentially advanced enough to evade detection.
- The discussion covers surveillance tactics complexity, motives behind targeting, potential geopolitical implications, security flaws in mobile OS, and the struggle between security and convenience.
- Concerns include phishing attacks on tech professionals, messaging app security, ethical dilemmas in global business, and legal issues around state actors employing spyware on citizens.

## [The Importance of Mental Health in Software Engineering](https://vadimkravcenko.com/shorts/mental-health-in-software-engineering/)

- The article highlights the significance of mental health in software engineering leadership roles, addressing the stigma surrounding mental health problems in the industry.
- It shares personal experiences with anxiety, burnout, and deadline pressures, emphasizing the importance of setting boundaries, seeking assistance, and prioritizing self-care.
- The discussion includes coping mechanisms, stress management advice, and the consequences of burnout on personal and professional life, advocating for self-care, seeking help, and not equating value solely with work accomplishments.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40001150)

- The conversation covers challenges software engineers face with arbitrary deadlines, prioritizing quality, and mental health impacts in the industry.
- It delves into stress from meeting deadlines in video games, addressing mental health stigma, and comparing stress levels across professions.
- Issues include managing conflicting priorities, lack of respect for developers, corporate greed's impact, and societal focus on young founders in tech, highlighting the need for better support and work-life balance.

## [Transformers.js – Pretrained Models in Browser for AI Tasks](https://github.com/xenova/transformers.js)

- Transformers.js is a machine learning library enabling users to utilize pretrained models directly in the browser for NLP, computer vision, audio, and multimodal tasks without a server.
- Users can convert PyTorch, TensorFlow, or JAX models to ONNX format, accessible through NPM or vanilla JS, enhancing language understanding, image processing, and overall efficiency.
- Recent advancements in AI-driven research introduce new transformer models like Vision Transformers and T5, focusing on text-to-text transfer learning, object detection, image recognition, and speech representation learning, including the innovative YOLOS model for object detection in vision by Huazhong University of Science & Technology.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40001193)

- Transformers.js is a browser library for running transformers in applications like image object detection and text generation, addressing challenges like large downloads and storage use.
- Users discuss enhancing efficiency and buffer reuse between CPU and GPU, alongside potential on-device AI processing, exploring economically viable local processing models and training small neural networks.
- The library shows promise for various projects in vision, language, and utility models, with ongoing work to improve performance and efficiency.

## [Vietnamese tycoon gets death penalty in $27B fraud scandal](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2024/apr/11/vietnamese-property-tycoon-sentenced-to-death-in-27bn-case)

- Property tycoon Truong My Lan has been sentenced to death in Vietnam for embezzling $27 billion from Saigon Commercial Bank, part of a massive fraud case.
- The trial included 86 individuals, such as former bankers and government officials, as part of a national corruption crackdown in Vietnam.
- Lan, who owned a majority stake in the bank, orchestrated fraudulent loan applications to withdraw funds over an 11-year period, denying the charges against her amidst this unprecedented case in Vietnam\'s anti-corruption campaign.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40002851)

- A Vietnamese property tycoon has been sentenced to death in a $27B fraud case involving money laundering and corruption within the banking system.
- The discussion includes debates on the use of the death penalty for non-violent crimes and the impact of corruption on society, touching on economic challenges, real estate issues, and political power struggles within the ruling elite.
- The conversation extends to comparisons between countries, the role of politics in addressing corruption, and the complexities of categorizing countries as communist or capitalist, also addressing financial crimes, political infighting, and the consequences of white-collar crimes amidst the COVID-19 pandemic in Vietnam.

## [Optimizing Scalability: ClickHouse for Event Engine](https://github.com/getlago/lago/wiki/Using-Clickhouse-to-scale-an-events-engine)

- Getlago adopted a hybrid database stack with ClickHouse for streaming events and Postgres for other data tasks to manage the high event load on their Lago product.
- ClickHouse is renowned for its analytic processing efficiency, especially for analyzing raw billable events, while Postgres serves other data needs.
- Managed solutions like ClickHouse Cloud are advised for cost-efficiency and scalability, with open-source projects shifting to ClickHouse for improved performance in event-driven applications.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40005005)

- Users discuss leveraging ClickHouse for scaling events engines, contrasting it with BigQuery and PostgreSQL for analytics.
- Tips are shared on data management, query optimization, and ClickHouse hosting, along with insights on configurations, challenges, and considerations for using various databases in specific scenarios.
- Future plans for Postgres in OLAP solutions and licensing agreements with firms such as Hydra and Parade are touched upon in the conversation.

## [Unlocking Trigonometry: Geometric Insights and Applications](https://www.oranlooney.com/post/angle-addition/)

- Geometric definitions of trigonometric functions like sine and cosine offer a more fundamental understanding than complex or series definitions, as per the article.
- The article presents geometric proofs of angle addition formulas, showcasing how these foundational definitions help in calculating derivatives and higher derivatives of these functions.
- It also demonstrates how these geometric definitions lead to Maclaurin series and the ODE definition of sine and cosine functions, emphasizing the pedagogical and historical importance of this approach.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40001597)

- The post delves into different trigonometric function definitions, favoring rotating a point on the unit circle over right-angled triangles for a more natural approach.
- It covers debates on defining angles via triangles or coordinates, the benefits of negative values in trigonometry, and the significance of grasping fundamental concepts like geometry for math intuition.
- Various perspectives on teaching trigonometry, geometric interpretations of sine and cosine functions, and leveraging power series for understanding trig are also explored.

## [Testing Precision Formation Flying in Space with Solar Eclipse Studied](https://spectrum.ieee.org/satellite-constellation-formation-flying-esa)

- ESA's Proba-3 mission will utilize a pair of satellites to experiment with precise formation flying in space.
- The mission aims to generate a solar eclipse in order to investigate the solar corona.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40000443)

- ESA satellites are experimenting with formation flying to autonomously sustain formation flight and aim to analyze gravity fields.
- The utilization of radar systems, cold gas thrusters, and minor maneuvers are being explored for satellite tasks in space.
- Cold gas thrusters are favored for their accuracy, dependability, and cost efficiency in executing small maneuvers in space operations.

## [A Glimpse Into Rabbit Telepoint Legacy](https://www.ianvisits.co.uk/articles/theres-a-dead-rabbit-in-seven-sisters-tube-station-71502/)

- The article delves into the history of the Rabbit mobile phone service, an early version of today's mobile networks, with a base station at Seven Sisters tube station.
- Despite its initial popularity, the Rabbit service was discontinued in 1993, leaving traces in various places.
- It emphasizes the importance of the Rabbit service in telecom history and its influence on the development of mobile technology.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40009856)

- The conversation explores the history and terminology linked with the Rabbit Telepoint base station and the challenges faced by the BSB satellite TV series.
- It also delves into the background and impact of the Rabbit mobile network system in the UK and beyond, alongside the advancements in cell phones.
- Additionally, it examines outdated technologies like the Dutch CT2 system and Mercury telephones.

## [Utilizing Linux Namespaces for Container Isolation](https://www.polarsparc.com/xhtml/Containers-1.html)

- The article explains Linux Containers leveraging Namespaces to isolate application processes, focusing on IPC, Network, Mount, PID, User, and UTS namespaces.
- It demonstrates setting up containers on an Ubuntu 18.04 LTS desktop, creating containers with golang, and isolating namespaces for host names, user/group IDs, and process IDs.
- By detailing filesystem mounting and layering in new namespaces, the text exhibits how Linux containers utilize different namespaces for resource abstraction and isolation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40008841)

- The post explains constructing a Linux container through namespaces and refers users to part 2 for further details.
- It mentions additional container resources and comments on utilizing Ubuntu 18.04, with users deliberating changes in later Ubuntu versions and content stability.
- Users engage in discussions regarding Ubuntu updates and the reliability of the provided information.

## [Wikipedia-Powered Tool Redirects .idk URLs for Easy Access](https://github.com/aaronjanse/dns-over-wikipedia)

- DNS over Wikipedia is a tool redirecting URLs with .idk to correct links of popular websites searched on Wikipedia, bypassing search engines that might censor results.
- Users can conveniently access accurate website links with Chrome and Firefox extensions or a Rust redirect script installation.
- It offers an alternative method to traditional search engines, reducing reliance on platforms that might restrict access to certain content.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40008383)

- The debate on GitHub and Wikipedia revolves around censorship, free speech, and alternatives to Wikipedia, focusing on controversial links, moderation, and trust networks.
- Participants discuss the challenges with Wikipedia, Google's dominance, and the importance of reliable online information sources.
- A user switched to a family plan with child-specific features to reduce Google search usage, reflecting a growing concern over information reliability.

## [Uppercase Convention for README Files (2015)](https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/301691/readme-txt-vs-readme-txt)

- The Stack Exchange Network comprises 183 Q&A communities, notably including Stack Overflow, a renowned platform for developers to seek help, exchange information, and work together on projects.
- The practice of using uppercase for README files started in Unix systems to enhance their visibility in directory listings, promoting consistency and user-friendly experience.
- Adhering to this convention is advisable to ensure uniformity and facilitate ease of navigation for users.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40003743)

- The importance of README files in software projects is discussed, tracing back to the DOS era and the open-source movement.
- Participants explore the use of uppercase letters in file names like "README" for visibility and sorting, along with the historical significance of ASCII and UTF-8 encoding.
- The conversation highlights the cultural and practical reasons behind naming conventions in computer systems, underlining the significance of good documentation and metadata formats for file organization.

## [Vortex 2.0: Advancements in Open-Source RISC-V GPGPU Development](https://vortex.cc.gatech.edu/)

- Vortex is an open-source project that supports GPGPU using RISC-V ISA extensions, compatible with OpenCL, currently operating on FPGA.
- The platform offers customization and scalability, presenting a complete open-source software stack for GPU architecture research.
- The release of Vortex 2.0 and recent publications showcase significant progress in open-source hardware GPU development.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40003868)

- The discussion delves into the complexity and fragmentation of modern GPU computing, covering various APIs like OpenCL, OpenGL, Vulkan, Metal, DirectX, CUDA, HIP, SYCL, and WebGPU.
- It compares the development history of CPUs and GPUs, emphasizing industry regulation challenges and opportunities.
- The conversation highlights differences in GPU APIs, programming languages, tools, and the effectiveness of OpenCL tooling, addressing uncertainties about OpenCL's future on Apple platforms.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Creating a 3D Printer Filament Sensor for PhD Project" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Creating%20a%203D%20Printer%20Filament%20Sensor%20for%20PhD%20Project&subheading=Friday%2C%20April%2012%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
