---
slug: '/2024/04/13'
---

# 2024-04-13

## [Author Questions Kagi's Transparency and Privacy Stance](https://d-shoot.net/kagi.html)

- The author has lost trust in Kagi, a search engine company, citing reasons such as lack of transparency, focus on diverse niche projects, financial instability, and conflicting stance on privacy.
- Concerns are raised about the company's sustainability and commitment to user privacy due to its controversial decisions, heavy reliance on AI tools, and disregard for privacy and bias.
- The author advises readers to evaluate these issues before continuing to support or use Kagi's services.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40011314)

- Users are discussing Kagi, focusing on its founder Vlad and expressing worries about the emphasis on t-shirts over enhancing the search engine.
- Concerns are raised about Kagi's financial stability, customer feedback, and compliance with GDPR regulations.
- Debates include the efficacy of marketing tactics, customer feedback importance, and the company's privacy policies and data handling, showcasing diverse views on Kagi's business strategies and customer-centric practices.

## [Recovery Kit 2: A Cyberdeck for Tech Enthusiasts](https://www.doscher.com/recovery-kit-version-2/)

- The Recovery Kit 2 is a versatile cyberdeck acting as a computer, backup system, and a practical movie prop.
- HN community assisted in developing this cyberdeck for hosting needs and migrating from Squarespace.
- The creator has a positive outlook, aiming for others to benefit from the Recovery Kit 2.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40014937)

- The post explores the development of a cyberdeck named Recovery Kit 2, influenced by the HN community and resembling the Panasonic CF-31 Toughbook.- Various subjects are debated, including recognizing screws, crafting Internet-connected gadgets, leveraging Hacker News' delayed feature, Raspberry Pi assignments, managing offline data, soldering in DIY tasks, reviving old laptops, and the drawbacks of bearing bulky offline info devices for post-apocalyptic situations.- Recommendations for substitute parts and storage techniques are proposed within the discourse.

## [Mazelit: Couple Quits Jobs to Release Debut Game on Steam](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40017180)

- A duo left their positions at Red Hat to establish a game company and delve into game development.
- They unveiled their debut game, "Mazelit," on Steam, crafted using Godot 4.2 over a three-month period, featuring a free demo playable up to level 8 and a full version with 80 levels.
- Seeking input on the game, they provide the source code as a downloadable content (DLC) for enthusiasts keen on modding or compiling the game for diverse platforms; Steamworks SDK is essential for some features, yet the game functions entirely without it.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40017180)

- A couple in their 40s quit their jobs at Red Hat to establish a game development firm, unveiling their debut game, Mazelit, on Steam.
- The dialogue covers the pricing approach for Mazelit, debating the pros and cons of lower versus higher prices.
- They discuss the hurdles and advantages of utilizing the Godot engine for game creation, addressing touch control problems, bugs, and sharing suggestions for working effectively with Godot.

## [Transform Google Sheets into Realtime APIs with Zerosheets](https://www.zerosheets.com/)

- The author designed a tool to convert Google spreadsheets into "realtime APIs," supporting methods like PATCH, GET, POST, and DELETE, addressing challenges faced while interfacing with Google's SDK for data extraction.
- Developers can access this tool at zerosheets.com to leverage its capabilities and share feedback on its performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40014730)

- The author created zerosheets.com, converting Google spreadsheets into real-time APIs to overcome challenges with Google's SDK, offering scalability solutions for essential business operations.
- Users debate utilizing Google Sheets for database, backend, and frontend purposes, discussing alternatives like Airtable and Notion, along with optimization tips such as caching with Redis to enhance performance.
- Discussions include worries about reliability, limitations, rate caps, and API adjustments, as well as SSL certificate concerns, data security practices, and additional tools for effective data handling and integration.

## [Malicious XZ Backdoor Uncovered: CVE-2024-3094 Analysis](https://securelist.com/xz-backdoor-story-part-1/112354/)

- A malicious backdoor was found in the XZ compression utility on Linux distributions, targeting OpenSSH servers on systems using systemd, labeled CVE-2024-3094 with a severity score of 10.
- The backdoor, implanted by an attacker named Jia Tan through hidden test files in the XZ git repository, utilizes modified build scripts to compromise beta and experimental builds by introducing multi-stage operations.
- Kaspersky products identify related malicious elements as HEUR:Trojan.Script.XZ and Trojan.Shell.XZ, providing indicators of compromise and thorough analysis in the disclosed information.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40017310)

- An attacker utilized a trie structure in the XZ backdoor incident to conceal malicious code and infiltrate SSH-enabled systems, resolved by the security community after a two-year period.
- This event sparks conversations regarding security and transparency in open-source projects, raising apprehensions about potential supply chain attacks and the necessity for enhanced security protocols.
- Discussions extend to considerations of governmental interference, developer identity verification, and the risks posed by debuggers in live systems, highlighting the broader implications of the incident.

## [Google's Standoff with California Over News Payment](https://www.theverge.com/2024/4/12/24128363/google-cjpa-news-removal-california)

- Google is considering blocking news in California due to the proposed California Journalism Preservation Act, which mandates payment for linking to news articles.
- A small group of users is already not seeing links to California news sites as part of a pilot program, and Google has paused investments in the state's news sector.
- The disagreement is rooted in Google's influence on journalism, debates on revenue sharing, and online advertising, echoing previous stances against paying media outlets in Spain and Australia.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40014892)

- Google may face penalties due to a proposed California law mandating tech firms to compensate news outlets for sharing their content, sparking a debate on Google's impact on news publishers.
- Discussions cover journalism quality, revenue, social media's role, and pros and cons of a link tax, along with challenges and ethical concerns in news creation and funding in the digital era.
- Varying opinions exist on tech giants' obligation to support journalism and potential remedies for news organizations' financial challenges.

## [96% of US hospital websites share visitor data with third parties: Study](https://www.theregister.com/2024/04/11/hospital_website_data_sharing/)

- 96% of US hospital websites share visitor data with third parties like Meta and Google, exposing visitor privacy and risking regulatory consequences for hospitals.
- Researchers from the University of Pennsylvania advise using browser tools to safeguard personal information due to the absence of a US federal data privacy law.
- The study highlights the need for improved privacy practices in the healthcare sector to protect patient and visitor data from unauthorized sharing.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40012466)

- US hospital websites are sharing visitor data with Meta, Google, and data brokers, raising privacy concerns and complaints.
- Issues include potential HIPAA violations, data shared with advertisers, and the impact of tracking tech on patient privacy.
- The discussion highlights the necessity for privacy laws, ethical concerns about using patient data for marketing, and the overall data privacy challenges in the modern era.

## [Man Arrested in Japan for Illegal Pokémon Save Data Sales](https://www.ign.com/articles/japanese-police-arrest-36-year-old-man-on-suspicion-of-tampering-with-pokemon-violet-save-data)

- A 36-year-old man in Japan was arrested for selling illegally modified Pokemon save data, breaching the Unfair Competition Prevention Act.
- The suspect confessed to altering move sets and offering custom rare Pokemon online to make money.
- If found guilty, he may be sentenced to a maximum of five years in jail and/or fined up to 5 million yen, highlighting a recurring theme of criminal actions associated with the Pokemon series.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40019124)

- A man in Japan was arrested for selling altered Pokémon save data, breaching the Unfair Competition Prevention Act, sparking debates on video game cheats and cultural influences on birth rates.
- The discussions expanded to include the legality of selling modified goods, copyright regulations, and the ethics of producing and sharing derivative content.
- This incident emphasized the intricate connections between legal frameworks, moral considerations, and cultural aspects impacting matters concerning gaming, housing affordability, and intellectual property rights.

## [Microsoft Testing Ads in Windows 11 Start Menu](https://www.theverge.com/2024/4/12/24128640/microsoft-windows-11-start-menu-ads-app-recommendations)

- Microsoft is testing ads in the Start menu of Windows 11, recommending apps from the Microsoft Store in the Recommended section.
- Users can disable these ads in the Settings; however, they might be turned on by default.
- Feedback from testers will influence Microsoft's decision on whether to keep these ads in the final version of Windows 11.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40018948)

- Microsoft is testing ads in the Windows 11 Start menu and blocking third-party replacements, leading to user frustration.
- Users question Microsoft's priorities, with concerns that ads are prioritized over customization, prompting some to explore open-source alternatives like Linux Mint and NixOS.
- Growing interest in non-Windows operating systems like installing Linux on laptops and considering Chrome OS Flex for its user-friendly interface, as users voice dissatisfaction with increasing ads on Apple devices.

## [Why Renovate is the Top Choice for Dependency Updates](https://www.jvt.me/posts/2024/04/12/use-renovate/)

- Renovate is highly recommended by Jamie Tanna as the top dependency update tool for its configurability, shareable presets, and user-friendly interface.
- Tanna has been using Renovate for five years in conjunction with other tools like Dependabot and Snyk, praising its ease of use and efficiency in updating dependencies across numerous repositories.
- Renovate provides support for shareable config presets, customizable deployment setups, and a robust package update management system, making it an ideal choice for managing dependencies in software development while also welcoming community contributions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40011111)

- Renovate is recommended over Dependabot as a dependency update tool due to GitHub's lack of investment in Dependabot.
- Users discuss managing dependencies in repositories, emphasizing the use of automation tools like Renovate, along with concerns about automated updates, especially in microservices environments.
- Some praise Renovate for efficiency, while others emphasize the importance of reviewing and testing upgrades, and mention staffing concerns and the potential use of AI agents for dependency updates.

## [Author's Decision: Moving on from Vintage Computer Festivals](http://ascii.textfiles.com/archives/5591)

- The author has ceased attending Vintage Computer Festivals due to a negative incident related to material disposal but has since resolved the issue.
- They have addressed criticism, clarified the situation, and asserted their freedom to participate in other events.
- The author has decided to move forward, focusing on their work and projects, after concluding the matter regarding the festival attendance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40018990)

- The conversation addresses vintage technology, preserving historical items, and managing solid wood furniture.
- It highlights challenges in handling donations, maintaining donor intent, and valuing history in technology.
- Emphasizes the significance of nostalgia, shared experiences, and the importance of preserving historical artifacts for future generations.

## [CEOs Embrace Hybrid Working as Permanent Fixture](https://fortune.com/2024/04/12/kpmg-study-us-ceos-accept-hybrid-working-employee-return-to-office/)

- A recent KPMG survey revealed that only one-third of CEOs anticipate a complete return to the office within the next three years, highlighting the acceptance of hybrid work arrangements.
- CEOs are changing their views on office work due to employee pushback during the pandemic, leading to a significant embrace of hybrid and remote work setups.
- Embracing hybrid work models is becoming crucial for companies to attract and retain top talent in the evolving job market landscape.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40018087)

- CEOs and employees are recognizing the enduring nature of hybrid work setups, citing advantages like eliminating commutes and crowded office spaces.
- Recommendations include occasional team retreats to enhance team cohesion in hybrid work environments.
- Debate encompasses the balance between work flexibility desires, productivity challenges, and the influence of remote and hybrid work on collaboration, commercial real estate, and the post-Covid work landscape.

## [Norway timber bridge collapse linked to aesthetic focus](https://www.dezeen.com/2024/04/11/tretten-bridge-collapse-norway-timber/)

- The collapse of the Tretten Bridge in Norway in August 2022 was caused by design and construction flaws resulting from unconventional choices and a focus on aesthetics.
- The bridge's failure was likely due to block shear failure in one of its timber diagonal members, highlighting shortcomings in the management system and knowledge about this type of failure.
- The Norwegian Public Roads Administration is enhancing bridge safety measures post-collapse, following a report by the Norwegian Safety Investigation Authority criticizing the lack of addressing construction weaknesses.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40015851)

- Discussion centers on bridge collapses caused by design flaws and maintenance problems, emphasizing prioritizing aesthetics over safety.
- Participants highlight the significance of proper maintenance, engineering decisions, and finding a balance between functionality and beauty in architecture.
- The conversation underlines the necessity for more funding in bridge infrastructure, stressing the importance of collaboration between architects and engineers to enhance bridge safety and longevity.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Author Questions Kagi's Transparency and Privacy Stance" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Author%20Questions%20Kagi's%20Transparency%20and%20Privacy%20Stance&subheading=Saturday%2C%20April%2013%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
