---
slug: '/2024/04/16'
---

# 2024-04-16

## [Descent 3 Source Code Released for Collaboration](https://github.com/kevinbentley/Descent3)

- The source code for Descent 3 will be released with permission from Matt Toschlog of Outrage Entertainment.
- A search for co-maintainers is underway to assist in the process of getting the code operational once more.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40048177)

- Enthusiasts are reminiscing about classic games such as Descent, EarthSiege 2, and Freespace, including accessing source code and modding them.
- Discussions also cover virtual reality, motion sickness, and the influence of games like Myst on the gaming sector.
- Mentioned is the release of Descent 3's source code and upcoming efforts to revive the game, sparking interest in the tech community.

## [Critical PuTTY Vulnerability Exposes NIST P521 Private Keys](https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/wishlist/vuln-p521-bias.html)

- PuTTY versions 0.68 to 0.80 contain a critical vulnerability exposing NIST P521 private keys through biased signature generation, enabling attackers to recover keys and forge signatures, risking SSH server authentication.
- Users should revoke impacted keys, create new ones, and upgrade to version 0.81, resolving the issue. The vulnerability arises from PuTTY's randomness generation for DSA signatures, with the solution implementing a more secure approach.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40044665)

- PuTTY has a vulnerability due to biased nonce generation in ECDSA, raising security concerns and suggesting alternatives like EdDSA and Schnorr.
- Emphasis is on clear communication in cryptography, hardware tokens for secure authentication, and addressing challenges of SSH on Windows systems, favoring GUI tools like PuTTY.
- Recommendations include switching to safer algorithms, considering the risks of connecting to compromised servers, and comparing RSA and EC key sizes for security levels in corporate SSH usage.

## [Navigating Trust: Insights on Embezzlers' Deceptive Charisma](https://www.stimmel-law.com/en/articles/story-1-embezzlers-are-nice-people)

- The article delves into the traits and intentions of embezzlers, highlighting qualities such as intelligence, charm, and the skill to uphold trust while committing fraudulent activities.
- It narrates encounters with individuals like Eddie, who exploited their perceived trustworthiness to engage in deceitful and thieving behaviors.
- Emphasizing the significance of trust and integrity in business, it showcases the negative consequences faced by those like Eddie who prioritize immediate benefits over ethical values.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40042616)

- The discussion explores motivations for embezzlement, career advancement challenges, addiction, ethical considerations, job performance, and societal norms' impact.'- Case studies, personal experiences, and ethical dilemmas debates emphasize the complexity of human behavior and the necessity for systems to deter fraudulent behavior.

## [T-Mobile Employees Offered Cash for Illegal SIM Swaps](https://tmo.report/2024/04/t-mobile-employees-across-the-country-receive-cash-offers-to-illegally-swap-sims/)

- T-Mobile employees are being tempted with cash incentives to engage in unauthorized SIM card swaps, posing a threat to customer accounts and funds.
- Concerns arise from the suspected access of personal data by the perpetrator behind the illicit SIM swap scheme, raising significant data security worries.
- To safeguard their accounts, customers are urged to adopt security measures like non-SMS-based two-factor authentication and activating SIM protection on their T-Mobile accounts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40045093)

- The discussion delves into SIM swapping, 2FA security, and authentication methods, highlighting concerns with SMS-based security and proposing alternatives like TOTP and hardware tokens.
- Recommendations include protecting against SIM swaps with secure services like Efani and implementing stricter security measures.
- Emphasis is placed on balancing security and accessibility in authentication methods, warning about the risks of relying solely on SMS for 2FA.

## [Building a DIY GPS Receiver with SDR](https://axleos.com/building-a-gps-receiver-part-1-hearing-whispers/)

- The author created a GPS receiver at home with a standard Software-Defined Radio (SDR) and signal processing system to pinpoint the user's location and time using radio antenna data.
- The project details and insights have been shared by the author, who mentioned that this will be their final public project due to a new job opportunity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40041198)

- The discussion delves into GPS technology, emphasizing SDR technology, Python programming, and numpy for GPS receiver development.
- Topics cover signal lock methods, receiver tech evolution, the shift to software-defined receivers, legal GPS issues, enhanced civilian signal access, and GPS security challenges.
- It underscores GPS intricacies, capabilities, and the risks of signal manipulation in diverse scenarios.

## [Neon Revolutionizes Postgres Development](https://neon.tech/blog/neon-ga)

- Neon, a novel database development approach, is now released and accessible. It targets Postgres challenges like scalability and data restoration, providing rapid cluster setup, auto scaling, and instant database branching.
- Neon differentiates itself by separating storage and compute for autonomous scaling, swift database deployment, and smooth developer collaboration. It offers API support, serverless driver, Vercel integration, autoscaling, and a CLI tool.
- It aims to boost developer efficiency, featuring a generous free package. Neon's goal is to enhance the experience for Postgres developers, offering a more efficient and streamlined process.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40040593)

- Neon Serverless Postgres has been released, receiving mixed reviews focused on glitches, slow performance, high prices, and reliability, with praise for the company's PostgreSQL community contributions.
- Users evaluate Neon's features, such as autoscaling and branching, alongside concerns about pricing, database stability, and comparisons with other providers.
- Discussions encompass Neon's architecture, benefits, shortcomings, storage setup, encryption methods, and long-term commitment caution, including topics like database hosting options, PostgreSQL extensions, merging databases, self-hosting, and Discord ads.

## [Etak Navigator: Pioneering Vehicle Navigation Technology](https://maphappenings.com/2024/04/11/story-of-etak/)

- The Etak Navigator, launched in 1985, was the first practical vehicle navigation system using augmented dead reckoning and a moving map display, setting the foundation for modern navigation technology.
- Despite lacking turn-by-turn directions, it introduced address search and real-time map display features, influencing future mapping systems.
- Etak's innovative approach led to the creation of the symbol depicting vehicle location in navigation apps today, inspired by Atari's spaceship symbol, and its acquisition by News Corporation later contributed to TomTom's development.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40047806)

- The discussion focuses on the historical Etak navigation system utilized by Micronesian and Polynesian seafarers, as well as the modern tech company Etak renowned for its mapping software.
- It touches on the evolution and significance of early navigation tech in the 1980s, such as Vicinity's MapBlast technology acquired by Microsoft.
- Modern navigation apps employ GPS and various signals for precision, with a nod to the use of vector displays in navigation systems and games, impacting interfaces like the PipBoy in Fallout and in-car record-keeping systems.

## [Tesla Cybertruck deliveries paused for 7 days](https://www.barrons.com/articles/tesla-cybertruck-production-halted-ac750c17)

- The code snippet features a 1.5-second animation using opacity keyframes.
- It requests enabling JavaScript and disabling ad blockers.
- Variables related to captcha delivery are present for tracking.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40040100)

- The discussion encompasses safety worries regarding Tesla cars, Elon Musk's management approach, car design concepts, and SpaceX's efficient rocket development method.
- Specific topics include concerns about stuck accelerators, debates on the design of Tesla models like the Cybertruck, and comparisons of cost and efficiency between SpaceX and NASA in aerospace projects.
- Issues raised involve Tesla's production pace, quality worries, and Elon Musk's ability to harmonize engineering choices with business tactics.

## [Recording Law Enforcement Calls in Florida: Citizen Oversight Expanded](https://www.orlandoweekly.com/news/phone-conversations-with-law-enforcement-can-be-recorded-without-their-consent-court-says-36640808)

- The Best of Orlando® Readers' Choice now accepts nominations across diverse categories like arts, culture, food, and music.
- A recent Florida court ruling allows citizens to record phone conversations with law enforcement without consent, enhancing civilian oversight following a case against the Citrus County Sheriff's Office.
- This decision, overturning wiretapping charges and emphasizing officers' lack of privacy expectations on duty, aims to ensure police accountability and deter misconduct. Governor Ron DeSantis also signed two related bills on the same day.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40044863)

- The discussion delves into legal and ethical aspects concerning recording phone calls, law enforcement practices, citizen oversight of police, and the historical evolution of policing.
- Debates encompass the legality of recording interactions with law enforcement, the effectiveness of citizen review boards, the necessity of uniformed police forces, and balancing transparency and privacy in recordings.
- It also covers police accountability, historical law enforcement examples, and varying viewpoints on the role and function of policing in society.

## [FDA-Approved Device Offers Relief for Tinnitus](https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2024/04/15/1244501055/tinnitus-hearing-loss-ringing-ear-noise)

- A musician with tinnitus found relief using the FDA-approved device Lenire, which stimulates the tongue to reduce symptoms.
- 84% of participants in a clinical trial experienced a significant reduction in tinnitus symptoms with the help of Lenire, which works by diverting the brain's focus from the ringing with electrical stimulation and calming sounds.
- While the long-term effectiveness and durability of Lenire's effects are under study, other tinnitus management options include hearing aids and mindfulness therapy, making many clinical trial participants recommend the device despite its cost.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40041430)

- Individuals discuss different strategies for managing tinnitus, a condition marked by ringing in the ears, including visualization, relaxation, tapping on the head, and using noise-canceling headphones.
- Some recommend acceptance and lifestyle adjustments, while others explore alternative treatments like craniosacral therapy and specific dietary supplements.
- The consensus highlights that adapting to and accommodating tinnitus, rather than aiming for a cure, is deemed the most effective approach to dealing with this condition.

## [Supabase Gears Up for General Availability](https://supabase.com/ga)

- Supabase announced its General Availability on April 15, 2024, with the capability to manage over 1 million databases securely and scale to 99 million, highlighting its long-standing readiness to support customers of all sizes.
- The platform offers free plans for testing and enterprise solutions for companies like Mozilla, PwC, and Johnson & Johnson, emphasizing scalability and user-friendliness for rapid project development and scaling to large user bases.
- With partnerships with Fly, Vercel, and Cloudflare, Supabase introduces new features like Supabase Index Advisor, Branching, and Oriole acquisition to streamline database management continuously, aiming to enhance developer productivity and reduce time to value for users with further exciting updates planned.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40039191)

- Users have varied experiences with Supabase, highlighting its quick setup and Postgres capabilities alongside critical bugs and sluggish connections.
- Debates encompass vendor lock-in, security vulnerabilities, and tooling constraints, with suggestions for self-hosting for more control.
- Supabase is lauded for its free tier with robust features, but concerns persist about advanced functionalities requiring payment.

## [Rediscovered: Ramanujan's Mathematical Gems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ramanujan%27s_lost_notebook)

- Ramanujan's lost notebook contains mathematical discoveries by Indian mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujan, found in 1976 by George Andrews, comprising over 600 formulas.
- The notebook features insights on q-series, mock theta functions, modular equations, and various mathematical subjects, with books by Andrews and Bruce C. Berndt offering proofs for Ramanujan's findings.
- The rediscovery of this notebook has sparked considerable fascination within the mathematical community, highlighting Ramanujan's exceptional contributions to the field.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40044901)

- The discussion delves into mathematics, Ramanujan's lost notebook, AI models, intuition, divine inspiration, and cultural attitudes towards God, focusing on Hinduism, Buddhism, and Taoism.
- It highlights the disparities in the perception of God across various cultures and religions and suggests reading materials for a deeper understanding while criticizing the use of specific texts.
- Moreover, it explores Ramanujan's mathematical impact, formulas, and efforts to reproduce his findings through collaborations.

## [Creating IMDb-like Platform for Open Source Projects: Seeking Product Planning Help](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40041954)

- The individual wants to build a web app similar to IMDb but for open-source projects, aiming to create a directory for discovering such projects with a search feature.
- They are looking for help in planning the development of the platform.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40041954)

- Users discuss developing an IMDb-like platform for open-source projects, drawing from experiences with OpenHub and Freshmeat.
- Emphasis is placed on functionality, time-framed reviews, and meaningful contributions over popularity in project ranking.
- Suggestions include improving project discoverability, quality assessment, revenue models, and considerations for governance and avoiding abuse and harassment in ratings.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Descent 3 Source Code Released for Collaboration" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Descent%203%20Source%20Code%20Released%20for%20Collaboration&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20April%2016%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
