---
slug: '/2024/04/20'
---

# 2024-04-20

## [Renowned Philosopher Daniel Dennett Passes Away](https://dailynous.com/2024/04/19/daniel-dennett-death-1942-2024/)

- The renowned philosopher Daniel Dennett has passed away, leaving behind a substantial impact on the philosophical community through his work in the philosophy of mind and cognitive science.
- Dennett is remembered for his contributions to intentionality, debates on free will, and outspoken atheism, with tributes emphasizing his charisma, humor, and intellectual influence.
- While his passing is considered a significant loss, his ideas and influence are anticipated to persist in the realm of philosophy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40088106)

- The text discusses philosopher Daniel Dennett's influence on AI safety and ethics, igniting discussions in these areas.
- It explores the origins and growth of hacker culture, the role of cognitive science in computer science, and the fusion of philosophy with STEM disciplines.
- Debates cover the significance of philosophy in knowledge comprehension, science's boundaries, and interpretations of quantum mechanics, drawing parallels between programming languages and philosophical concepts.

## [Tesla Issues Recall for Cybertrucks Over Faulty Accelerator Pedals](https://techcrunch.com/2024/04/19/tesla-cybertruck-throttle-accelerator-pedal-stuck/)

- Tesla is recalling 3,878 Cybertrucks because of defective accelerator pedals that may stick, posing a risk of accidents for drivers.
- This recall comes after a challenging week for Tesla marked by layoffs and top-level executives leaving the company.
- The company is addressing the issue by replacing or fixing the pedals on current vehicles and manufacturing new Cybertrucks with an updated accelerator pedal design.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40085565)

- Tesla has recalled all Cybertrucks due to a faulty accelerator pedal from an unauthorized change during manufacturing, sparking a debate on proactive versus reactive safety measures.
- The discussion revolves around worker fatigue, Tesla's safety culture, manufacturing defects, and communication breakdowns in tech companies.
- Emphasizes the significance of proper documentation, approval processes, and quality control in construction and automotive sectors amid evolving manufacturing processes and handling recall challenges.

## [Quill v2: Customizable Rich Text Editor](https://quilljs.com/)

- Quill Rich Text Editor is a free, open-source WYSIWYG editor known for its modular architecture and versatile API, catering to various customization needs.
- With a user-friendly interface, it ensures consistent performance across different platforms while providing detailed control over content, edits, and events through its API.
- Highly popular with over 37,000 stars on GitHub, Quill is trusted by both small-scale projects and Fortune 500 companies for text editing tasks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40089460)

- Users praise the Quill v2 rich text editor for its user-friendly interface, but some are contemplating a switch to ProseMirror for more advanced customization features, despite its challenging learning curve.
- Discussions revolve around different rich text editors like Quill, ProseMirror, and TinyMCE, emphasizing the importance of clear documentation and project philosophy for a smoother experience.
- ProseMirror is recommended by some users for its flexibility and capabilities, sparking debates on Quill's application in healthcare education and its adoption by major tech firms like Microsoft.

## [Apply to Y Combinator for S24 - Deadline April 22](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40091622)

- Y Combinator (YC) is urging individuals to apply, emphasizing that doubts about readiness or timing should not deter them.
- YC seeks potential founders and provides guidance on navigating the startup world.
- The application deadline for YC is 8 pm PT on April 22, with decisions expected by May 29.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40091622)

- The conversation centers on the Y Combinator (YC) application process, including challenges, benefits, and misconceptions about its acceptance criteria.
- Founder qualities like determination and resourcefulness in entrepreneurship are crucial, particularly for building successful businesses through non-traditional education routes.
- Emphasized topics include diversity, ethics, personal satisfaction, and the importance of slow, profitable growth in startups, along with discussions on venture capital biases, idea execution balance, and YC application procedures.

## [Mastering Programming with C++: Stroustrup's Latest Edition](https://www.stroustrup.com/programming.html)

- "Programming: Principles and Practice Using C++ (3rd Edition)" by Bjarne Stroustrup is an introductory book for beginners and experienced programmers aiming to enhance their programming skills.
- The book explores fundamental programming concepts, emphasizes writing efficient and maintainable code, and utilizes modern C++ standards like C++20 and C++23.
- It covers procedural, object-oriented, and generic programming, as well as practical programming techniques, language features, and libraries essential for real-world applications.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40086779)

- The discussion on the 3rd edition of "Programming: Principles and Practice Using C++" critiques the "import std;" line in the first program, expressing concerns about confusion for beginners and the necessity of build systems.
- Conversations extend to GUI development using QT, featuring the Meta Object Compiler and Qt Creator, discussing coding tools, libraries, naming conventions, and the importance of self-documenting code.
- Preferences for languages like C++, Python, Rust, and Swift are discussed, along with learning resources, modern practices, the necessity of learning C++ for advanced development, performance issues, and alternatives to overcome language limitations.

## [Efficiently Structuring Your Home Directory: Tips and Tricks](https://unixdigest.com/tutorials/tips-on-how-to-structure-your-home-directory.html)

- Efficiently structure the $HOME directory by organizing by category and dates and utilizing Git for dotfiles.
- Manage mount points, configuration files, and data storage with shell scripts, ZFS datasets, and encryption techniques for better organization.
- Emphasize backup strategies, data security, clear file organization, and regular maintenance to enhance productivity and setup improvement.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40085543)

- The article emphasizes organizing the home directory efficiently to enhance productivity and prevent clutter, suggesting methods like the XDG convention and creating separate folders for personal files.
- Users discuss different file organization strategies, backup systems, and storage methods, underlining the significance of personalized solutions for effective workflow.
- The primary aim is to streamline file management, enhance accessibility, and avoid data loss through tailored and structured approaches.

## [The Evolution of Monkey Island: The Curse Unveiled](https://www.filfre.net/2024/04/the-curse-of-monkey-island/)

- The article delves into the plot twists and surprising conclusion of Monkey Island 2, paving the way for the popular third installment, The Curse of Monkey Island.
- Despite initial reluctance, the game retained the humor and charm of the original series, blending it seamlessly with new technological features.
- The game received acclaim for its impressive visuals, immersive gameplay, and the continuation of the beloved franchise, signifying a shift towards modern technology for LucasArts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40088751)

- Fans discuss various aspects of the Monkey Island video game series, such as the portrayal of women, puzzle-solving mechanics, game design evolution, and the reception of specific installments like The Curse of Monkey Island and Secret of Monkey Island.
- Appreciation is shown for the game's art, humor, and storytelling, with some concerns raised about evolving aesthetics and difficulty levels.
- The impact of gameplay guides and nostalgia for classic adventure games like Loom are also touched upon in the conversation.

## [Enhancing Connectivity: Multipath TCP Comes to Linux](https://www.mptcp.dev/)

- Multipath TCP (MPTCP) extends standard TCP, enabling devices to utilize multiple interfaces concurrently for sending and receiving TCP packets through one connection.
- MPTCP aggregates bandwidth, prioritizes lower-latency paths, and smoothly shifts paths if one fails, detected via additional options in TCP headers and overseen by a Path Manager and Packet Scheduler.
- It supports various path management types, socket options, and debugging features, maintained by the MPTCP community through tools like the MPTCP daemon and Packetdrill.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40089609)

- Multipath TCP (MPTCP) for Linux has faced slow adoption over the past decade, attributed to implementation complexities on real servers and middlebox concerns.
- Efforts focus on enhancing network performance using multiple paths for data transmission, with innovative solutions like ECMP, Maglev, QUIC, and MPQUIC.
- Discussions encompass the limitations of TCP and UDP, the promise of QUIC for UDP performance, SCTP's role in telco networks and WebRTC, MPTCP benefits in various systems, and ongoing debates about security, privacy, and connectivity implications.

## [DuckDuckGo's Private Search Engine with AI Chat and More](https://duckduckgo.com/?q=DuckDuckGo&ia=chat)

- DuckDuckGo provides shortcuts for searching on different sites like images, videos, news, maps, and shopping, emphasizing privacy and offering AI chat, themes, and browser options.
- The search engine values privacy and provides resources for users to understand their services better, available across multiple platforms.
- DuckDuckGo stands out for its commitment to privacy and user-friendly features like themes and AI chat, making it a popular choice among privacy-conscious users.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40086571)

- The discussion delves into AI utilization in search engines, notably DuckDuckGo, with users sharing diverse perspectives on AI-powered search results' pros and cons.
- Concerns are raised about privacy, data sharing, and the reliability of AI chat functions, sparking debates on the use of third-party services like Bing and the business strategies of AI-focused companies.
- Users are split on the efficacy of AI algorithms in generating search outcomes and the extent of privacy assurance provided by DuckDuckGo, underscoring the challenge of harmonizing AI advancements with privacy protections in search engine technology.

## [Fired Google Employee Urges Continued Protest](https://www.thehandbasket.co/p/google-worker-fired-protest-israel-project-nimbus)

- Google terminated 28 employees, led by Hasan Ibraheem, for protesting a $1.2 billion contract with Israel, sparking allegations of retaliation.
- The fired employees stood firm despite threats and arrests, highlighting the importance of speaking out against controversial projects.
- Ibraheem advocates for ongoing support and protest against companies participating in contentious endeavors, emphasizing the significance of taking a stand.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40087063)

- The debate revolves around a Google employee who was fired for objecting to the company's contract with Israel, highlighting the challenge of balancing personal beliefs with a professional work environment.
- It discusses the impact of protests in the workplace, the role of democracy in business and personal relationships, and the complexities of political activism and expressing unpopular opinions.
- Additionally, it touches on ethical considerations when doing business with controversial governments, evolving public acceptance of activism, and ongoing COVID-19 precautions like wearing masks at protests.

## [Valkey Gaining Momentum Over Redis](https://devops.com/valkey-is-rapidly-overtaking-redis/)

- The Redis database faced licensing changes that sparked dissatisfaction among developers and users, prompting the creation of a fork named Valkey.
- Valkey has garnered substantial backing from prominent companies and maintainers, causing a notable shift in preference away from Redis, with support from major players like AWS, Google Cloud, and Oracle.
- Redis is encountering challenges as top customers migrate to Valkey, raising uncertainties about its future due to the significant shift in the database industry's interest based on empirical data.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40092449)

- The focus is on Valkey gaining popularity as an alternative to Redis amid concerns over Redis Labs' management and open source project sustainability.
- Discussions cover challenges in commercializing open source software, licensing impact on contributors and businesses, and the significance of community trust in such projects.
- Mention of historical cases like Jenkins and Oracle, alongside comparisons to successful companies based on open source software, underscores the importance of software maintenance and security, along with potential community splits from forks like Redict and Valkey.

## [Exploring Bitcoin Transactions and CSS Styling on Webpages](https://mempool.space/block/0000000000000000000320283a032748cef8227873ff4872689bf23f1cda83a5)

- The text covers CSS styling properties for webpage elements like font styles, animations, and responsive design adjustments.
- It also delves into Bitcoin topics such as transactions, mining pools, block details, transaction fees, and blockchain technical data.
- Mentions a website named InClassicBlueMattwiz providing resources for exploring the Bitcoin ecosystem, like mining dashboards and API documentation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40093263)

- Discussions encompass various Bitcoin-related topics such as mining, environmental effects, hedging against inflation, sanctions' impact, and the threat of a 51% attack on the network.
- Participants debate different mining approaches, energy consumption, Bitcoin's role in warfare, government oversight, and the hurdles of crypto adoption in areas with restricted internet connectivity.
- Conversations underscore the intricate nature and trade-offs within the cryptocurrency sector, impacting global economics and geopolitics.

## [C-Macs: Lightweight macOS App Written in Pure C](https://github.com/CodaFi/C-Macs)

- C-Macs is a Cocoa application developed solely in C without Nibs or Objective-C, consuming less than 1.5 MB of memory.
- The app displays a red square using Core Graphics, lacks a license, and includes a disclaimer for users to employ it at their own risk.
- Despite known bugs and constraints, the software aims to be revised to support older OS versions and non-Intel architectures.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40085237)

- The post delves into the creation of a pure C macOS application and the developer's perspective on constraints and viewpoints, lauding the project for embracing the hacker ethos and employing unconventional methods such as objc_msgSend, CoreGraphics, and Carbon.
- Topics discussed include the Win32 API, GUI applications, diverse programming languages, memory utilization, and the importance of constructing MacOS applications using more advanced languages.
- Users share anecdotes about Objective-C, software development for Mac and Unix systems, OS evolution, as well as addressing licensing concerns, copyrights, and the GPL license.

## [Bug Discovered in Quantum Algorithm for LWE by Tsinghua University Professor](http://www.chenyilei.net/)

- Yilei Chen, an assistant professor at Tsinghua University, holds a Ph.D. in cryptography from Boston University and focuses on quantum algorithms for lattice problems.
- A bug discovered in one of his LWE solving algorithms prompted him to update his research while keeping the rest of the paper intact to preserve the value of his ideas for future use.
- Chen occasionally shares comic slides related to cryptography and maintains a Github page showcasing his work.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40085260)

- A bug in a quantum algorithm paper related to lattice problems that could impact cryptography was discovered and openly addressed by the author.
- The response to the error was positive, praising the transparency and ongoing research contributions, showcasing accountability and dedication within the community.
- The expertise and backgrounds of those involved in identifying and fixing the bug were emphasized, underlining the importance of skill in the field of quantum computing.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Renowned Philosopher Daniel Dennett Passes Away" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Renowned%20Philosopher%20Daniel%20Dennett%20Passes%20Away&subheading=Saturday%2C%20April%2020%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
