---
slug: '/2024/04/21'
---

# 2024-04-21

## [Why You Should Think Twice About Y Combinator (YC)](https://twitter.com/dvassallo/status/1781751108211511680)

- The author discourages applying to Y Combinator (YC) for S24, cautioning about potential undisclosed drawbacks despite the funding and support benefits.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40099585)

- The discussion covers the pros and cons of participating in Y Combinator (YC) as a startup founder, including aspects like pivoting, financial outcomes, program value, and success rates.
- Different viewpoints on YC's effectiveness, venture capitalist funding, online courses, and ergodicity in forecasting startup success are explored.
- Various topics such as networking, AI startups, engagement farming, online interaction challenges, and validation-seeking behavior are also discussed in the conversation.

## [Study Reveals Grading Bias Based on Names at U-M](https://record.umich.edu/articles/study-alphabetical-order-of-surnames-may-affect-grading/)

- A University of Michigan study reveals that students with surnames starting from A to E often receive higher grades in the Canvas online learning system due to sequential grading biases.
- The grading disparity may adversely affect students' GPAs and future career prospects, highlighting the importance of addressing this issue.
- Recommendations from the researchers include employing random grading orders or increasing the number of graders to mitigate this bias.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40097375)

- The discussion delves into how grading methods, including alphabetical order, affect student performance and introduce bias in education.
- Strategies like randomization and technology tools are proposed to promote fair grading practices and mitigate issues such as fatigue, bias, and inequality in the grading process.
- Suggestions for improvement encompass blind grading, standardized tests, and AI grading systems to uphold fairness in academia despite the challenges faced by educators.

## [Senate Passes Reauthorization of Key US Surveillance Program](https://apnews.com/article/fisa-donald-trump-surveillance-congress-johnson-81e991c9f82e77b2fe13f8a3e0e25349)

- President Joe Biden signed legislation renewing Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, a significant U.S. surveillance law.
- The Senate passed the bill with bipartisan backing after debates on FBI limitations, enabling the government to gather foreign intelligence through monitoring non-American communications outside the U.S.
- Proponents, including Biden and U.S. officials, emphasize the program's vital role in national security, while opponents advocate for stronger safeguards to protect American privacy rights.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40096575)

- The discussion encompasses surveillance programs, FISA reauthorization, political influence, and government transparency, raising concerns about privacy, abuse of power, and impacts on civil liberties.
- Additional topics include party politics, the role of intelligence agencies, and the difficulties of bipartisanship, shedding light on the complexities and tensions in government decision-making.
- The conversation underscores the delicate balance between security and individual freedom, emphasizing the intricacies involved in these governmental decisions.

## [Building Mailoji: 300 Emoji Domains Yield $1440/year (2021)](https://tinyprojects.dev/projects/mailoji)

- The author acquired 300 emoji domain names from Kazakhstan and created Mailoji, an emoji email service, which gained popularity on TikTok, earning $1000 within a week.
- Despite facing challenges, Mailoji was launched on Product Hunt, generating around $1440 in yearly revenue, offering a fun dive into the realm of emoji domains and enhancing the tech experience.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40101885)

- A user purchased 300 emoji domain names from Kazakhstan in 2021 and launched the email service tinyprojects.dev, sparking interest and debate about its success.
- Challenges have arisen due to compatibility issues with popular email clients, prompting discussions on hosting websites on emoji domains and the implications, including centralization, blockchain-based domain systems, GDPR compliance, website ownership, and data privacy laws.
- Some concerns were raised about potential spam and hoarding of emoji domains, while others are fascinated by the innovative concept and its potential applications.

## [Thunderbird Enhances Support for Microsoft Exchange](https://blog.thunderbird.net/2024/04/adventures-in-rust-bringing-exchange-support-to-thunderbird/)

- Thunderbird is introducing built-in compatibility for Microsoft Exchange in the next ESR release, initially concentrating on email features and later on calendar and address book integration.
- Developers opt for Rust due to its advantages in memory safety, performance, and modularity, navigating technical obstacles to incorporate HTTP requests and XML management for Exchange compatibility.
- Future endeavors involve rigorous testing, refining error management, broadening protocol compatibility, and detailing the implementation for Thunderbird's user base.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40100672)

- Implementing Exchange Support in Thunderbird involves debates on protocols, on-premise installations, Evolution Calendar, and Microsoft products on Linux.
- Discussions also include opinions on Thunderbird's search function and the advantages of using Rust for multithreaded applications over C.
- Users propose enhancing Thunderbird by adding Exchange support and potentially rewriting the codebase in Rust for improvements.

## [Programming Emphasizes Thinking Over Typing](http://agileotter.blogspot.com/2014/09/programming-is-mostly-thinking.html)

- Tim Ottinger stresses the significance of thinking over typing in software development, emphasizing that programming is primarily mental work rather than physical activity.
- The author challenges the idea of software development as a factory-like process, highlighting the importance of design, research, problem-solving, and decision-making in programming, where typing is just a minor component.
- The post provides insights into enhancing the thinking process for improved quality and productivity in software development, touching on quality assurance and the author's agile practices background.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40103407)

- Understanding programmers' challenges and the impact of domain knowledge on coding are crucial for efficient coding practices.
- The article delves into the debate of planning versus immediate coding, the benefits of tools like Github Copilot, and the significance of ergonomic equipment for programmers.
- Emphasizing the importance of thoughtful planning, problem-solving, and distinguishing between "coding" and "programming" before diving into coding enhances coding efficiency.

## [Rare Evolutionary Event: Algae and Cyanobacteria Merge](https://newatlas.com/biology/life-merger-evolution-symbiosis-organelle/)

- Scientists identified an extraordinary event where algae Braarudosphaera bigelowii and cyanobacteria UCYN-A merged into a single organism, a process called primary endosymbiosis, occurring rarely in Earth's history.
- The newly formed organism, named nitroplast, enables the algae to extract nitrogen from the air, a crucial nutrient, possibly impacting agricultural productivity with implications for crop enhancement.
- The research detailing this unique evolutionary event was published in reputable scientific journals Cell and Science, providing a significant contribution to the field.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40101290)

- Symbiogenesis is a rare phenomenon where two life forms merge to create a single organism, like archaea incorporating a bacterium that later becomes mitochondria.
- The article explores teaching challenges in complex topics and stresses the significance of honesty in learning.
- Evolution of organelles and its implications for genetic code appropriation are discussed, showcasing the intricacies and impact of symbiogenesis on evolution.

## [Unleashing LLMs: Revolutionizing Financial Markets](https://thegradient.pub/financial-market-applications-of-llms/)

- The AI revolution in 2023 sparked significant investment in technologies like Large Language Models (LLMs), such as GPT-3, known for their potential in language processing.
- Despite debates on their effectiveness in predicting stock prices due to challenges like noisy data and market dynamics, LLMs show promise in fundamental analysis and generating synthetic data for training trading strategies.
- While not an immediate threat to quantitative trading, the success of LLMs in various fields has piqued interest and investment in AI research, hinting at future opportunities through AI advancements.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40099344)

- The discussion delves into the utilization of Large Language Models (LLMs) in financial sectors for tasks like predicting market impacts and analyzing stocks.
- Concerns are raised about the trustworthiness and accuracy of AI-generated data, particularly in handling PDFs and tables, impacting the analysis in financial markets.
- There is a push for collaboration with a trading partner to create a UI tool that leverages AI and machine learning to identify market disparities and opportunities.

## [Racket 8.12: Empowering Programmers with Rich Features](https://racket-lang.org/)

- Racket version 8.12 is out now, offering robust features like graphical programming support and a diverse package library.
- Programmers can define loops, macros, build domain-specific languages, and utilize higher-order contracts and gradual typing.
- Racket provides IDE tools, the flexibility to craft new languages instantly, and a supportive ecosystem with tutorials, libraries, forums, and educational materials.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40102912)

- The Hacker News discussion focuses on comparing the Racket programming language with Common Lisp, highlighting strengths and limitations of each.
- Topics include Racket's usability, integrating languages, transitioning between functional and imperative languages, practical applications, and teaching Lisp in academic settings.
- Racket is commended for its cross-platform GUI solutions and teaching potential, while Common Lisp is recognized for its versatility and dedicated user base.

## [Beware of Hisense TV: Root Cause of PC Woes](https://cohost.org/ghoulnoise/post/5286766-do-not-buy-hisense-t)

- The poster faced persistent technical issues on their PC for two years, such as taskbar malfunctions and settings errors, which were traced back to a Hisense smart TV connected to their network.
- Deleting keys created by the TV resolved the PC problems, restoring full functionality to settings, taskbars, and peripherals.
- They shared their successful troubleshooting journey online, enabling them to utilize remote desktop capabilities once more.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40096253)

- Hisense TVs are causing Windows freezing by flooding the device tree with random UUIDs for UPnP network discovery, leading to concerns about security risks and DoS attacks.
- Users recommend using external devices like Apple TV or Plex boxes to address the issue, while some have reported better performance after resetting their TVs.
- The debate extends to using projectors versus TVs for home entertainment, with opinions differing based on personal preferences and requirements.

## [Nitrogen-fixing Nitroplast: Evolutionary Breakthrough in Eukaryotic Cells](https://newscenter.lbl.gov/2024/04/17/scientists-discover-first-nitrogen-fixing-organelle/)

- Recent discovery: A nitrogen-fixing organelle named nitroplast found in a eukaryotic cell challenges the belief that only bacteria can fix nitrogen from the atmosphere.
- Nitroplast evolved from an endosymbiont to an organelle like mitochondria and chloroplasts, impacting our understanding of organelle evolution.
- Implications for agriculture and the environment exist as researchers further investigate the relationship between the nitroplast organelle and its host organism.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40101317)

- Scientists have found the first nitrogen-fixing organelle, possibly lessening the reliance on fertilizers.
- Concerns exist about potential outcomes like species out-evolving food crops but also optimism about reducing fertilizer dependence and combating climate change.
- Debates revolve around the advantages and risks of employing this tech in genetically modified crops and human genetic manipulation.

## [Teaching models to excel with self-reasoning tokens](https://reasoning-tokens.ghost.io/reasoning-tokens/)

- "Reasoning Tokens" are introduced to train models like GPT to anticipate future steps autonomously, leading to substantial loss reduction, as per experiments.
- These tokens incentivize models to perform intermediate calculations beneficial for upcoming tokens, potentially surpassing conventional models needing detailed explanations.
- The application of reasoning tokens in fine-tuned instruction-following models is under exploration for enhanced model performance and future planning.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40099252)

- The debate focuses on self-reasoning tokens in teaching models to anticipate future outcomes, particularly regarding working memory integration in transformer models.
- Stop-gradient is proposed to isolate specific tokens in training to enhance long-term forecasting accuracy.
- Discussions highlight concerns about inefficiencies in beam-search methods and advocate for deeper reasoning in language models, suggesting diverse strategies like incorporating concept tokens and fostering internal and external dialogues.

## [AltStore PAL: Europe's New iOS Sideload Option](https://altstore.io/#Downloads)

- AltStore PAL is now accessible in Europe for €1.50/year + VAT, providing a unique method to sideload apps on iOS with a strong emphasis on security.
- The app offers detailed store pages for each app and enables users to self-publish their apps, catering to those seeking apps not found on the Apple App Store.
- Developed by a small team and reliant on donations, AltStore aims to offer users an alternative way to access iOS apps outside the official App Store ecosystem.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40100151)

- Apple's control over iOS app distribution raises concerns among users and developers regarding accessing third-party software.
- AltStore is the inaugural Apple-approved alternative App Store, inaccessible in some countries, causing frustration for users missing out on apps like Delta Emulator.
- Debates continue on Apple's rigid app distribution rules, developer fees, and the viability of alternative operating systems, alongside concerns about approval processes and the benefits of alternative app stores towards enhancing user experience.

## [Why Gamification Manipulates Human Behavior](https://www.gurwinder.blog/p/why-everything-is-becoming-a-game)

- Gamification employs game mechanics to influence behavior through immediate rewards, originated from psychologist B.F. Skinner's work and adopted by businesses to shape actions.
- Initially targeting positive behaviors, gamification has transformed into a potent tool for steering human behavior, sparking concerns about addiction and reliance on artificial objectives.
- Prioritizing short-term rewards, as highlighted through cases like Ted Kaczynski and US defense secretary Robert McNamara, may jeopardize long-term fulfillment, stressing the significance of engaging in challenging, enjoyable activities or paving a unique path free from external manipulation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40100867)

- The article delves into the trend of gamification across work, exercise, and education, underscoring its effects on motivation, productivity, and societal matters.
- It discusses both the advantages and disadvantages of integrating game elements into various aspects of life, highlighting potential drawbacks and the importance of deriving meaning from daily tasks.
- Emphasizing how games can leverage our brain's reward system to encourage learning and curiosity, the discussion reinforces the significance of finding purpose and progression in everyday endeavors.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Why You Should Think Twice About Y Combinator (YC)" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Why%20You%20Should%20Think%20Twice%20About%20Y%20Combinator%20(YC)&subheading=Sunday%2C%20April%2021%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
