---
slug: '/2024/04/24'
---

# 2024-04-24

## [Did Prabhakar Raghavan Kill Google Search?](https://www.wheresyoured.at/the-men-who-killed-google/)

- Google Search faced a revenue decrease in February 2019, causing conflicts within teams regarding growth strategies, with a focus on user experience preferred over negative engagement tactics.
- Despite attempts to rectify the situation, Google's search revenue continued to plummet, sparking discussions around management practices, profit-driven decisions, and the implications on search technology.
- Prabhakar Raghavan's management, influenced by his experience at Yahoo and IBM, has become a point of scrutiny for its effects on innovation and product quality within Google and the broader tech sector.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40133976)

- The discussion delves into Google's search quality, machine learning, AI, and business strategies, addressing leadership changes' impact, spam, SEO, and recommendation algorithm challenges.
- Comparison with companies like IBM and Microsoft is made, considering Google's heavy reliance on advertising revenue.
- Participants express skepticism towards AI and machine learning, highlighting the importance of a balanced approach with human oversight in decision-making processes.

## [CoreNet: Apple's Toolkit for Deep Neural Networks](https://github.com/apple/corenet)

- CoreNet is a neural network toolkit created by Apple for training small to large models for object classification, detection, and segmentation tasks.
- Requires Python 3.9+ or 3.10+ with PyTorch and offers optional dependencies for audio and video processing.
- Evolved from CVNets, CoreNet now supports a wider range of applications beyond computer vision like training LLMs, and welcomes contributions from users.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40139398)

- Apple is working on CoreNet, a library for deep neural network training that goes beyond computer vision tasks, indicating their focus on advancing AI technologies.
- Speculation is ongoing about Apple's AI progress and initiatives like CoreML, along with the development of LLM training libraries such as Axlearn and CatLIP using open-source frameworks.
- The discussions also involve Apple's utilization of technologies like CoreData, Apache Cassandra, and MLX, as well as considerations for using Apple Silicon devices and tools for developers, Nix-Darwin for macOS settings management, and potential monetization of open-source products.

## [Rabbit R1 Source Code Reveals Limitations](https://github.com/rabbitscam/rabbitr1)

- The Rabbit R1 device from rabbit.tech aims to free users from app-based interactions but falls short of expectations, as its source code disclosure shows it lacks the advanced features it claims to have.
- The device depends on automation scripts for minimal app compatibility and doesn't incorporate artificial intelligence capabilities.
- Users are required to log in through a virtual machine, potentially introducing security vulnerabilities like storing user sessions without adequate safeguarding, prompting worries over user privacy and the device developers' engineering standards.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40135250)

- The leaked Rabbit R1 source code on GitHub sparked discussions on security and authenticity, with skepticism towards the leakers' claims, leading to debates on various tech topics.
- Conversations included technology, pricing, AI integration, wearables, voice recognition, and automation tools in app development, along with concerns about source code distribution, scams, file sizes, and security risks.
- Users also explored new AI devices like the Vision Pro, privacy ethics, and product features' actual performance effectiveness.

## [The Beauty of Japanese Language Complexity](https://aethermug.com/posts/the-beautiful-dissociation-of-the-japanese-language)

- The text delves into the intricacies of the Japanese language, emphasizing its distinct features like kanji characters, syllabic scripts, untranslatable words, and grammar nuances.
- It explores the historical evolution of Japanese, the complexities of the writing system, and the specific challenges posed by kanji characters.
- The use of furigana in literature is discussed for its role in improving comprehension and creating artistic impacts, while the separation between written and spoken Japanese is noted for offering a unique reading experience with added depth and complexity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40132281)

- The article discusses the distinct features of Japanese and Chinese languages, such as onomatopoeia, grammar complexity, and cultural nuances.
- It covers challenges like language acquisition, translation difficulties, and expressing untranslatable concepts.
- Emphasizes the significance of grasping language context, cultural references, and pronunciation nuances in understanding these languages.

## [10-Level Balancing Game: Stay Balanced as Difficulty Increases](https://www.balanc3dgame.com/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40130304)

- The mobile browser game, resembling Super Monkey Ball with 10 levels, receives mixed reviews from users, suggesting enhancements like daily challenges, checkpoints, and new obstacles.
- Players criticize the game for its harsh penalties upon dying and subpar controls, while also expressing privacy concerns regarding motion sensors on Firefox.
- Despite some compatibility and control problems, users commend the game for its difficulty and entertainment value, proposing additions like varied camera angles and a feature to compare scores with other players, some recommending a webapp version for improved accessibility.

## [New Foundations Consistency Proof with Lean](https://leanprover-community.github.io/con-nf//)

- In 2010, Randall Holmes claimed to prove the consistency of Quine's "New Foundations" set theory, now verified using the Lean interactive theorem prover.
- The project establishes a connection between New Foundations and Tangled Type Theory, demonstrating the former's consistency.
- Hosted on GitHub by the University of Cambridge team, the project relies on mathlib and constructs diverse tangles across different levels.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40130924)

- Discussions revolve around the reliability of proof systems such as Lean and Metamath for verifying mathematical proofs, stressing the significance of human involvement in interpreting results.
- Debate includes the use of language-learning models for translation in proof tasks and the AI's effectiveness in proofreading.
- Explorations cover the consistency of New Foundations set theory, the power of theorem proving software, and the reliability of machine-verified proofs, with a focus on the accessible Mathlib project engaging users in complex mathematical ideas.

## [Accidental Expert: Conway's Game of Life Pioneer](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40131597)

- The author joined the Conway's Life research community in 2001 after finding a "boojum reflector" and has since supported Life-related resources like mailing lists and blogs.
- They contributed to a 480-page textbook on Conway's Life and are considered an expert on the topic, willing to address any related inquiries.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40131597)

- The text delves into Conway's Game of Life, a 2D cellular automata system, including its applications, advancements, and challenges, along with related topics like Wolfram's work on cellular automata.
- It discusses practical applications of Game of Life patterns, the limitations of AI in discovering new patterns, and the impact of presentation choices on mathematical art, highlighting the emergence of complex behavior from simple rules.
- The conversation underlines collaborations in Life projects and the potential for further exploration and experimentation in this field.

## [Apple aims to boost CarPlay adoption through deeper integration and monetization](https://www.theturnsignalblog.com/apples-risky-bet-on-carplay/)

- Apple CarPlay is favored by drivers for its smooth integration with popular apps and user-friendly design.
- CarPlay 2 promises more profound integration with vehicles, but automakers are cautious due to worries about brand uniqueness and integration expenses.
- Apple might monetize CarPlay by offering licenses and customization features, while collaboration between tech firms and automakers is crucial for CarPlay's acceptance in the automotive sector.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40134921)

- The article delves into Apple's CarPlay system, its efficacy, and the influence of the Japanese car industry on global infotainment systems.
- It discusses the challenges of merging software into long-lasting products like cars, potential for subscription services in the automotive sector, and the preference for CarPlay over other infotainment choices.
- The debate includes CarPlay's compatibility, wireless connectivity issues, and its future integration in vehicles, as well as the impact of Apple and Google on the automotive industry.

## [Empower Microcontrollers with ESPHome](https://esphome.io/index.html)

- ESPHome is an open-source project allowing microcontroller control via configuration files and integration with Home Automation systems.
- It supports sensors for monitoring temperature, humidity, CO2, and more, and features components for climate control, alarm systems, and wireless communication.
- Users can exchange data between devices, contribute to documentation, and discover the newest release, 2024.4.1.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40138228)

- ESPHome, from the Open Home Foundation, is popular for simplifying DIY IoT devices to monitor home conditions such as temperature, humidity, and air quality.
- Users suggest wire terminal breakout boards and CloudFree for flexible parts in creating IoT devices.
- Discussions involve sensor options, affordability, and compatibility, with users sharing positive experiences and considerations when moving from Tasmota to ESPHome for home automation.

## [Introducing Getada: Simplifying Ada Toolchain Installation](https://getada.dev)

- Getada is a one-liner terminal command, similar to Rustup, enabling users to conveniently install Ada and its toolchain Alire on Linux and MacOS.
- It is an open-source tool that automatically fetches the latest Alire version, configures essential directories and paths, targeting to streamline Ada programming initiation for novices.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40132373)

- Getada simplifies the installation of Ada's toolchain and package manager on Linux and MacOS with a one-liner command, inspired by Rustup.
- Discussions revolve around various package managers and version control tools for Ada projects, emphasizing the significance of efficient installation processes for newcomers.
- The community explores Ada's unique features, advancements, comparisons with languages like Rust, C, and Java, as well as using SPARK and security considerations when downloading programming tools' installers.

## [Decoding the Intrigues of Ableton Live Suite 12](https://twitter.com/gf_256/status/1782656618015904103)

- A Twitter user is trying to pirate Ableton Live Suite 12 and is intrigued by a statement in the NFO file claiming it does not alter the original binaries.
- The user is initiating a discussion to explore the software's functionalities and potentially engage in reverse engineering.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40132719)

- The conversation delves into reverse engineering software cracks, specifically on macOS, addressing code signing and circumventing security measures.
- It explores the incentives behind cracking software, various techniques employed, accessing Twitter material, and critiques of cybersecurity Twitter.
- Emphasis is placed on specific cracking methodologies, associated difficulties, and the significance of comprehending system architecture.

## [Creating Realistic Visuals in Game Design: Simulating Jupiter's Cyclones](https://emildziewanowski.com/flowfields/)

- The article explores techniques in game design to achieve realistic visuals and sounds, including simulating fluid motion, color cycling, texture scrolling, and animation for enhanced visual effects.
- It highlights challenges in integrating velocity values for accurate fluid simulation and utilizing tools like Unreal Engine and Substance Designer for dynamic effects on gas giants such as Jupiter.
- The primary aim is to efficiently and cost-effectively create visually appealing and realistic flow patterns in game environments.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40139434)

- The post explores simulating Jupiter with tools like UE4, ShaderToy, and transpilers, showcasing different techniques.
- Users provide feedback on the website's aesthetics, readability, and color contrast, along with discussing shader coding and experimentation.
- It's a unique blend of technical analysis on shader coding, visual design feedback, and simulation techniques for Jupiter enthusiasts.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Did Prabhakar Raghavan Kill Google Search?" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Did%20Prabhakar%20Raghavan%20Kill%20Google%20Search%3F&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20April%2024%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
