---
slug: '/2024/04/25'
---

# 2024-04-25

## [Biden Signs Law Requiring ByteDance to Divest TikTok](https://www.theverge.com/2024/4/24/24139036/biden-signs-tiktok-ban-bill-divest-foreign-aid-package)

- President Joe Biden has signed a bill into law mandating ByteDance, the China-based parent company of TikTok, to divest the platform in 9 to 12 months to prevent a US ban.
- The bill, part of a foreign aid package, passed through political tactics, prompting TikTok to announce legal opposition, raising worries about China's reaction.
- TikTok CEO argues against the ban, framing it as a silencing of user expression, further intensifying the debate on the platform's future.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40145963)

- President Biden signed a bill mandating ByteDance, TikTok's parent company, to sell its US operations, citing national security worries regarding possible Chinese government data exploitation.
- Discussions focus on the US-China power balance, data privacy laws, international relations, and the repercussions of a TikTok ban, including concerns about Chinese influence, propaganda, and social media manipulation.
- Debates are ongoing about the addictive algorithms in social media, foreign content control, and the societal and security effects of TikTok being under Chinese government control or sold to US entities.

## [Airlines mandated to refund passengers for flight disruptions](https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/airlines-give-automatic-refunds-canceled-flights-delayed-3/story?id=109573733)

- The Department of Transportation introduced new rules mandating airlines to offer cash refunds for canceled or significantly delayed flights, as well as for lost baggage not delivered within 12 hours, to safeguard passenger rights and deter hidden fees.
- Airlines must adhere to the regulations within six months, assuring customers receive the refunds they are entitled to and holding airlines accountable for their obligations.
- The initiative aims to enhance customer protection and ensure transparency regarding refund policies in the airline industry.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40150639)

- Airlines are under scrutiny for denying cash refunds for canceled or delayed flights, violating regulations in the US and EU.
- Passengers, unhappy with vouchers, are taking legal action to secure their entitled refunds, leading to discussions on the industry prioritizing profit over customer satisfaction.
- The importance of clearer and enforced airline regulations to address issues like flight delays, overbooking, missed connections, and unaccompanied minors is highlighted, with contrasting experiences shared among passengers.

## [IBM acquires HashiCorp for $6.4B](https://www.reuters.com/markets/deals/ibm-buy-hashicorp-64-billion-deal-expand-cloud-software-2024-04-24/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40149095)

- IBM is set to acquire HashiCorp in a $6.4 billion deal, raising concerns about innovation, culture, and financial aspects for employees.
- Speculation surrounds the impact on HashiCorp's products, such as Terraform and Nomad, with users questioning potential changes in licensing and the products' future.
- Discussions extend to the utilization of programming languages like Go and Rust for error handling and software development, alongside critiques of IBM's consulting division, Kyndryl, and differing views on IBM's place in the tech sector.

## [The Power of Reading Beyond Memory](https://blog.jim-nielsen.com/2024/you-are-what-you-read/)

- The article underlines that the impact of reading and consuming content stretches beyond mere memorization, shaping our thoughts and behavior.
- It stresses the significance of broadening our mindset through reading and being selective about the content we engage with.
- The inclusion of personal stories illustrates the enduring influence of education on individuals, emphasizing the lasting effects of what we read and learn.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40151952)

- The article explores how past experiences, decision-making, and free will interact, emphasizing the influence of reading, travel, and environment on beliefs and behaviors.
- It underscores the significance of consciously choosing online content and raises philosophical inquiries about consciousness, personal agency, and societal impacts on decision-making.
- The discussion provides insight into the complex dynamics shaping human behavior and identity formation, prompting reflection on the intricacies of these processes.

## [IBM Boosts Hybrid Cloud Platform with $6.4B HashiCorp Acquisition](https://newsroom.ibm.com/2024-04-24-IBM-to-Acquire-HashiCorp-Inc-Creating-a-Comprehensive-End-to-End-Hybrid-Cloud-Platform)

- IBM is acquiring HashiCorp for $6.4 billion to strengthen its multi-cloud management capabilities and boost growth in strategic areas, including enhancing its hybrid cloud platform.
- HashiCorp's automation and security tools, like Terraform, will enrich IBM's services and widen its access to enterprise customers, pending regulatory approvals.
- This acquisition aligns with IBM's objective of expanding hybrid cloud and AI utilization, with the expectation of enhancing earnings and cash flow.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40149136)

- IBM has purchased HashiCorp, Inc for $6.4 billion, leading to discussions about IBM's growing involvement in open-source software.
- The acquisition has triggered speculation about IBM's possible future acquisitions in the tech industry.

## [When Music Discovery Plateaus: Exploring New Tunes Beyond 30](https://www.statsignificant.com/p/when-do-we-stop-finding-new-music)

- The article delves into music stagnation, highlighting when individuals typically stop discovering new music based on data analysis.
- Factors like generational influences and the explore-exploit trade-off shape our music preferences, with research indicating a stagnation of musical tastes around 30-33 years due to overwhelming options and shifting priorities.
- Cultivating open-mindedness and actively seeking new music can combat music paralysis, encouraging a balance between exploring fresh tunes and reveling in beloved classics for contentment.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40147534)

- Participants discuss the limitations of current music recommendation algorithms and share experiences in discovering new and diverse music.
- The impact of streaming services, changing music industry trends, personal preferences on music taste, and challenges in categorizing and recommending music based on individual preferences are key topics.
- The conversation also addresses racial segregation in the industry, historical influences on music genres, and emphasizes the importance of actively exploring new music for cultural and musical growth.

## [Exploring Race Relations and Southern Tradition in Padgett Powell's 'Edisto'](https://lithub.com/i-now-lack-the-juice-to-fuel-the-bluster-to-conceal-that-i-am-a-simpleton-padgett-powell-legend/)

- "Edisto" by Padgett Powell delves into the coming-of-age journey of Simons Everson Manigault in the South, touching on race relations and family dynamics.
- Powell highlights the use of a young narrator to showcase the absurdity of racial integration, reflecting on Southern literary traditions and experimental fiction.
- The passage addresses challenges with modern readership, sensitivity editors, racism, and the evolution of literary fiction, offering insights into various themes and the opportunity to support Literary Hub.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40148563)

- The article delves into discussions, debates, and interviews concerning language, literature, race, and identity, addressing topics such as word choice, capitalization of terms like "Black" and "White," and the evolution of prose style.
- It also touches on the concept of verisimilitude and explores racism, ethnic identity, and the intricacies of online discourse.

## [Snowflake Arctic: Largest 128x3B MoE Open Source Model](https://replicate.com/snowflake/snowflake-arctic-instruct)

- The Readme Demo App enables users to interact with Arctic, a dense-MoE Hybrid transformer AI model created by the Snowflake AI Research Team.
- Arctic model checkpoints are accessible under the Apache-2.0 license for both base and instruct-tuned versions, fostering research, prototyping, and product usage.
- Snowflake Arctic's Github repository offers supplementary materials like tutorials and cookbooks for leveraging the powerful 480 billion parameter model combining a 10 billion dense transformer with a massive 128x3.66 billion MoE MLP.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40146088)

- Tech industry discussions focus on AI models like Snowflake Arctic and Llama-3, highlighting environmental impacts, quality challenges, and competition issues.
- Emphasis on benefits and drawbacks of AI models, lack of positive ROI in some markets, and the significance of open-sourcing training data for true open-source models.
- Talks include MOE models for CPU inference, CPU clock speed evolution, and debates on model reproducibility and open-source compliance, emphasizing implications and ethical concerns in AI applications.

## [Enhanced Front-End Tool for Drag-and-Drop Functionality](https://github.com/atlassian/pragmatic-drag-and-drop)

- Pragmatic drag and drop is a versatile toolchain for effortlessly adding drag and drop functionality to web applications, seen in products like Trello, Jira, and Confluence.
- The code is publicly available under the @atlaskit namespace on npm, but contributions are not being accepted at the moment, with optional packages that can be easily interchanged for styling and view libraries.
- It integrates with various design systems and programming languages, standing on the collaborative efforts of many individuals at Atlassian.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40147883)

- The post evaluates the pros and cons of drag-and-drop component libraries, focusing on accessibility challenges on mobile devices, featuring react-beautiful-dnd and dndkit.
- It highlights the struggles of implementing drag-and-drop for intricate card game interfaces, recommending Pragmatic drag-and-drop and SortableJS for such tasks.
- Users share frustrations about drag-and-drop functionality on touch devices, including Jira's performance problems and the difficulties of utilizing these features on mobile platforms.

## [The Mondrag贸n Corporation: A Leading Industrial Co-op](https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2024/apr/24/in-the-us-they-think-were-communists-the-70000-workers-showing-the-world-another-way-to-earn-a-living)

- Mondrag贸n Corporation in Spain is the largest industrial co-operative globally, with 70,000 worker-owners sharing profits, guided by a human-centric ethos influenced by Catholicism and the Rochdale Pioneers.
- Despite obstacles, Mondrag贸n thrives by emphasizing democratic organization, wage solidarity, and social responsibility, staying competitive in the market.
- This cooperative model has spurred interest internationally, offering a potential alternative to conventional capitalist business frameworks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40143814)

- The discussion examines the advantages and disadvantages of employee-owned cooperatives, using the Mondrag贸n Corporation in the Basque Country as an example.
- Various types of cooperatives, their influence on different sectors, and the contrast between customer-owned and employee-owned cooperatives are explored.
- Topics encompass the differences between socialism and capitalism, the effectiveness of worker-owned enterprises, and the consequences of wage hikes on employees, shedding light on the intricate nature of ownership models and economic ideologies.

## [Faer-rs: Efficient Linear Algebra in Rust](https://github.com/sarah-ek/faer-rs)

- Faer is a Rust crate focusing on portable, correct, and performant linear algebra operations, offering high-level wrappers for matrix tasks like multiplication and inverse.
- Benchmark data showcases its performance against other libraries such as ndarray and nalgebra, with timing measurements for various decomposition methods and matrix operations.
- Contributions are welcomed via the Discord server, with timing comparisons demonstrating faster performance for larger matrices and Hermitian calculations in eigenvalue decomposition calculations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40143669)

- The GitHub discussion delves into the lack of shared resources and code in Rust libraries for matrices and arrays like ndarray, nalgebra, and faer, with faer-rs excelling in LU decomposition benchmarks.
- It addresses topics such as preconditioning in numerical calculations, BLIS optimization, and concerns regarding the auto keyword in Eigen benchmarking.
- Multithreaded benchmarks reveal Faer outperforming OpenBLAS when compared to MKL, utilizing Rayon for parallelism, competing with libraries like fastdiv and good_lp, emphasizing the significance of efficient code and collaboration in benchmark accuracy.

## [Childhood Myopia: Global Epidemic on the Rise](https://theconversation.com/nearsightedness-is-at-epidemic-levels-and-the-problem-begins-in-childhood-225255)

- Nearsightedness, or myopia, is on the rise worldwide, with an estimated half of the global population expected to require glasses by 2050.
- The surge in myopia is linked to increased screen time and reduced time spent outdoors, emphasizing the importance of early detection and vision correction to halt its advancement.
- Encouraging outdoor activities and regular breaks from close-up tasks can assist in mitigating or postponing the development of myopia.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40148707)

- The rise in myopia, particularly among children, is linked to insufficient exposure to natural light, sparking debates on using corrective lenses to halt its advancement.
- Recommendations range from endorsing glasses to doubting their effectiveness, while suggestions like atropine drops and outdoor activities are proposed to curb myopia progression.
- Discussions extend to genetic predispositions, environmental triggers, and the significance of early vision screenings and education in combating the escalating myopia rates.

## [Stainless Unveils SDK Generator for API Integration](https://www.stainlessapi.com/blog/announcing-the-stainless-sdk-generator)

- Stainless has launched an SDK generator, facilitating the development of client libraries for well-known APIs like OpenAI and Cloudflare, streamlining the integration process for developers.
- The tool automates the generation and upkeep of SDKs in various programming languages, enhancing efficiency and reliability in API integration.
- The initiative by Stainless is geared towards enhancing the REST ecosystem by enabling the creation of high-quality, typesafe APIs and offers an SDK Studio for issue identification and resolution pre-release.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40146505)

- Stainless SDK Generator automates the upkeep of public API language bindings, enhancing SDK quality and saving engineering time.
- It tackles issues encountered in managing multiple SDKs, preventing discrepancies from the original API and streamlining development.
- Stainless is lauded for its user-friendliness, customization, and potential to boost interoperability, positioning it as a top choice for SDK generation.

## [The Legacy of LAN Parties: Nostalgia and Communal Gaming Experience](https://aftermath.site/lan-party-merritt-k-book-read-only-memory-rom)

- The article and book delve into the heyday and decline of LAN parties, where gamers gathered locally for multiplayer gaming before widespread high-speed internet.
- It discusses the cultural importance and social aspects of LAN parties, contrasting them with the shift towards online gaming and matchmaking services.
- Mentioned are the technological advancements in gaming and the influence of cultural trends like anime and nu metal, highlighting the nostalgia for the personal connection and community feel of early gaming against today's technology-driven society.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40148833)

- The article explores the heyday and decline of LAN parties during the late 1990s and early 2000s, focusing on the community spirit, sharing technical expertise, and nostalgia experienced by participants.
- It discusses parental worries regarding online child safety and how LAN parties have evolved within the gaming community over time.
- Users reminisce about favorite games, connectivity issues, and the enduring appeal of LAN parties despite technological progress.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Biden Signs Law Requiring ByteDance to Divest TikTok" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Biden%20Signs%20Law%20Requiring%20ByteDance%20to%20Divest%20TikTok&subheading=Thursday%2C%20April%2025%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
