---
slug: '/2024/04/27'
---

# 2024-04-27

## [Balancing Quality and Speed in Rust gamedev](https://loglog.games/blog/leaving-rust-gamedev/)

- An indie developer decided to step away from Rust gamedev due to challenges with the borrow checker, slow prototyping, and GUI development, critiquing the community's focus on technical aspects over practical game creation.
- The post delves into the utilization of generational arenas, Entity-Component-System (ECS), and the constraints of GUI libraries in Rust, stressing the importance of balancing code quality, iteration speed, efficient data management, and enhancing compile times in Rust game development.
- Despite obstacles like hot reloading, UI structure, and global state integration, the author values Rust's compiler-driven methodology, high performance, and usability for CLI tools and data handling.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40172033)

- Developers using Rust in game development encounter challenges such as slow compile times, ecosystem limitations, and struggles implementing advanced features like async systems.
- Participants discuss the pros and cons of Rust versus other languages like Go and C++, debating its suitability for game engines and systems programming.
- The conversation highlights the significance of memory safety, parallelism, and productivity in game development, exploring alternative languages and approaches to enhance efficiency and flexibility in projects.

## [Free High-Quality CC0 Textures and 3D Models for Commercial Use](https://www.sharetextures.com/)

- sharetextures' CC0 Textures and 3D Models offer copyright-free resources including 184 models and 1502 textures for commercial projects.
- The platform is sustained by patrons and constantly expands its collection with frequent additions.
- Access over 37 atlases on the website for diverse project needs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40168519)

- Tolgaarslan has been sharing PBR textures and 3D models for free on sharetextures.com since 2018, offering software tool recommendations and seeking collaborations.
- Users engage in conversations about software tools, copyright, licensing, copyright-free works, and public domain materials, as well as optimizing texture atlases and experiences with game development engines.
- ShareTextures, initiated by a group of architects to provide free materials, triggers a debate on whether creators should receive payment, while users share feedback on the site and suggest resources for 3D models, exploring topics like using photogrammetry, node-based editors, and PBR textures in 3D modeling.

## [Bun Introduces Efficient Crash Reporting in Zig and C++](https://bun.sh/blog/bun-report-is-buns-new-crash-reporter)

- Bun software introduces a new crash report format in Zig and C++ to address the challenge of reproducing and debugging crashes from over 2,600 GitHub issues.
- The compact format minimizes personal data and eliminates the need for large debug symbols, featuring encoded stack trace addresses and feature flags for efficient server analysis.
- The system showcases the advantages of sending essential data for issue diagnosis over traditional core dumps, demonstrating privacy-conscious and high-performance crash reporting.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40171183)

- Users are discussing Bun's New Crash Reporter as an alternative to debug symbols, debating the inclusion of function names in the debug table on Hacker News.
- Different perspectives on debugging tools and package management between Vue and Svelte are highlighted in the conversation, with users praising Bun's functionality but suggesting improvements.
- Feedback includes positive experiences with uwebsocket and Bun, alongside concerns about REPL function issues and using Bun as a replacement for Node.js.

## [PEP 686: Python defaults to UTF-8 Mode](https://peps.python.org/pep-0686/)

- PEP 686 proposes switching Python's default encoding to UTF-8 to align with industry standards and enhance compatibility with other technologies, with the option to opt-out if necessary.
- The proposal addresses backward compatibility on Windows and offers guidelines for error management, aiming to ensure consistency in locale encoding usage.
- Similar to Java and Ruby, Python aims to streamline text encoding for newcomers while supporting existing users, rejecting alternatives like deprecating implicit encoding and PYTHONIOENCODING for PIPEs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40168242)

- The discussion on PEP 686 on python.org proposes making UTF-8 the default text file encoding to address platform-specific challenges and ensure consistency in specifying encoding in Python.
- Contributors highlight the importance of understanding the differences between byte strings and Unicode code points, along with concerns about legacy application compatibility when switching Windows to default to UTF-8.
- The debate includes topics like using Byte Order Marks (BOMs), transitioning to UTF-8 across various operating systems, and the impact of encoding standards on performance and memory usage in Python and Java.

## [Pharo 12: Object-Oriented Simplicity & Enhanced Tools](https://pharo.org/news/2024-04-26-pharo12-released.html)

- Pharo 12, a user-oriented programming language focusing on simplicity and immediate feedback, has been launched with a live environment and exceptional debugging capabilities.
- Key highlights of version 12 encompass a new breakpoint system, tools enhancements, and advancements in the system and virtual machine.
- The release, backed by 1895 Pull Requests and contributions from 70+ contributors worldwide, showcases Pharo's open-source nature and community-driven development.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40167742)

- Users discuss the challenges and benefits of working with the Smalltalk programming language Pharo, noting difficulties in understanding its unconventional nature and lack of examples.
- Suggestions for improving the Pharo learning experience include attending conferences, using community resources like Discord, and creating more educational materials.
- The conversation covers the importance of better documentation, enhanced user interface, and the potential obstacles of implementing parallelism in Pharo, while also comparing it to other Smalltalk systems like Squeak and Cuis.

## [Court upholds New York $15 broadband law](https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2024/04/court-upholds-new-york-law-that-says-isps-must-offer-15-broadband/)

- A federal appeals court has affirmed a New York law mandating ISPs to provide $15 broadband plans for low-income users, a decision not superseded by federal rules and supported by trade groups representing ISPs.
- This ruling is a crucial victory for states' authority to oversee broadband services, potentially influencing upcoming net neutrality legislation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40174424)

- The discussion explores ownership, pricing, and regulation of internet infrastructure, emphasizing government vs. private ownership in the US and globally.
- Key topics include challenges in breaking telecom monopolies, government impact on internet privacy, and providing affordable internet for low-income groups.
- Main themes cover the balance between government regulation and privatization, nationalization effects on essential utilities, and the significance of competition and accessibility in the telecom sector.

## [UK's 'Snooper's Charter' Bill Becomes Law Amid Tech Industry Opposition](https://www.theregister.com/2024/04/26/investigatory_powers_bill/)

- The UK's Investigatory Powers Bill, known as the "snooper's charter," has been approved with minor changes, expanding digital surveillance powers to combat national security threats and online child abuse.
- Critics worry the bill will compromise privacy, enable mass data collection, and potentially slow security updates, possibly making the UK more prone to cybercrime.
- Tech companies, privacy advocates, and organizations like techUK and Privacy International have voiced concerns about the bill's implications on privacy, security innovation, and international legal conflicts, including the government's stance on breaking end-to-end encryption for national security reasons.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40168765)

- The UK's Investigatory Powers Bill has become law, facing opposition from the tech industry.
- Critiques are directed at media coverage, notably the BBC, for not sufficiently highlighting this crucial matter.
- Discussions cover privacy worries, government surveillance, EU legislation effects, societal behavior, historical context, and the monarchy's involvement in lawmaking.

## [Veilid: Decentralized App Launch at DEF CON 31](https://cultdeadcow.com/tools/veilid.html)

- Veilid is a new decentralized application designed to offer online interactions without exploiting user data for profit.
- The platform will be introduced at DEF CON 31 in Las Vegas, featuring events, demos, and details about the foundation, contributors, and press releases.
- Emphasizing privacy, Veilid's launch signifies a move towards more ethical approaches in the tech industry.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40167905)

- The Cult of the Dead Cow unveiled an open-source application framework named Veilid in 2023, sparking comparisons with Briar and Berty.- Users have raised worries about Veilid's accessibility and documentation, reflecting concerns amid Internet commercialization.- Discussions include nostalgia for early internet tech, website accessibility using JavaScript, hacker culture, and the significant history of groups like the Cult of the Dead Cow, reminiscing about its influence on the hacking community and links to figures such as Beto O'Rourke.

## [Master Coding Problems with Spaced Repetition Tool](https://www.lanki.xyz/)

- The LeetCode question-solving tool enables users to categorize questions as hard, medium, or easy and suggests review based on difficulty and time since last review.
- To benefit from personalized recommendations, users should attempt and categorize problems initially to enhance the tool's effectiveness.
- An explanation of the theory supporting spaced repetition and learning is available through a provided link.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40173237)

- The discussion delves into the effectiveness of spaced repetition, memorization, and problem-solving methods in mastering coding concepts for job interviews, notably utilizing platforms like LeetCode.
- Various perspectives are shared on the role of memorization in education and personal growth, with an emphasis on tailoring traditional memorization approaches to individual learning styles.
- The importance of combining understanding with memorization and the influence of standardized LeetCode-style questions in technical interviews are highlighted in enhancing coding skills and performance during job interviews.

## [Jon Pretty vindicated in Scala community court battle](https://pretty.direct/statement.html)

- Scala developer and speaker Jon Pretty faced false allegations from prominent Scala community members, resulting in his cancellation three years ago.
- Pretty took legal action, sued for libel, and after a two-year battle, the parties settled, with the accusers admitting fault and apologizing.
- This incident had a negative impact on Pretty's career and personal life, but he has now received vindication and aims for reconciliation and continuation of his work with Scala 3.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40169578)

- Jon Pretty has settled sexual harassment allegations within the Scala community using a consent order, sidestepping prolonged legal proceedings.
- Debates emerge on defamation laws disparities between the US and UK, focusing on burden of proof and accountability variations.
- The discourse delves into cancel culture, allegations of coordinated accusations, and possible agendas among Scala community members, with Travis Brown, known for uncovering hate speech and cancelling individuals for their political views, at the center, facing accusations of doxxing and personal connections to parties in the case.

## [Exposing Amazon's Aggressive Business Tactics](https://www.vanityfair.com/news/story/inside-amazon-business-practices)

- Dana Mattioli's interview with Vanity Fair reveals Amazon's aggressive tactics, such as stifling criticism, eliminating competitors, and fostering internal competition.
- Her book, "The Everything War," delves into Amazon's ascent to dominance, lobbying endeavors, and challenging reporting experiences due to the company's secrecy.
- The article discusses Amazon's lobbying, public relations strategies, influence on small enterprises, the feud with President Trump, and potential antitrust hurdles under the Biden administration amid the rising antitrust movement in Washington.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40171551)

- The article exposes the hypocrisy of the upper and upper-middle classes supporting Amazon but criticizing Walmart, discussing "luxury beliefs" stemming from privilege.
- It delves into the misunderstood concept of "defund the police," exploring its various interpretations and implications.
- The impact of Amazon and Walmart on employee compensation, working conditions, competition in small businesses, and concerns about Amazon's practices are highlighted, including insights from Amazon employees and former employees' negative experiences.

## [Factorio: Enhancing Game Statistics and Linux Support](https://factorio.com/blog/post/fff-408)

- Wube team's Friday Facts #408 highlights enhancing game statistics in Factorio, like accumulator charge and science pack usage.
- Raiguard is now part of the team, emphasizing Linux support, addressing challenges like diverse compilers and libraries.
- Factorio 2.0's migration from Allegro to SDL lowers dependencies and code size, with efforts ongoing to rectify window resizing problems in Sway and enhance Linux performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40174316)

- Factorio developers are enhancing the game for version 2.0, removing the X11 dependency and incorporating a library compatible with X11 or Wayland, ensuring X11 support for Windows users via Proton.
- Users are voicing dissatisfaction with GNOME's window decorations and praising KDE's customization options, sparking discussions on Factorio's state-saving complexities, including multi-threading challenges and memory allocation problems.
- The post addresses statistical advancements in Factorio gameplay and highlights concerns over GNOME's usability, garnering attention for Factorio's upcoming release changes and desktop environment comparisons.

## [Sacred Modernity: Exploring Europe's Brutalist Churches](https://www.dezeen.com/2024/04/24/sacred-modernity-brutalist-churches-book-jamie-mcgregor-smith/)

- Photographer Jamie McGregor Smith's book "Sacred Modernity" showcases 100 churches across Europe, focusing on brutalist and modernist architectural styles in countries like Italy, Germany, and the UK.
- The book aims to highlight the innovative designs of these unconventional churches, challenging traditional church aesthetics and incorporating sculptural concrete forms and unconventional shapes.
- McGregor Smith emphasizes the post-war rejection of traditional church design in favor of new architectural styles that evoke creativity, form, and light to create a sense of wonder and curiosity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40167933)

- The conversation focuses on the rise of brutalist architecture in churches, notably in Finland and Scandinavian Lutheran churches.
- Opinions vary on brutalist churches, with some feeling anxious or uneasy, while others admire the modern aesthetic.
- Divided views exist on whether brutalist churches convey divinity or oppression, with comparisons to sci-fi settings, and examples from different locations are discussed, including a historical church in Longarone, Italy.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Balancing Quality and Speed in Rust gamedev" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Balancing%20Quality%20and%20Speed%20in%20Rust%20gamedev&subheading=Saturday%2C%20April%2027%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
