---
localized_date: May 23, 2023
top_news: Memory Allocation
---

# 2023-05-23

## [Memory Allocation](https://samwho.dev/memory-allocation/)

- Memory allocation is a critical concept in computer programming.
- malloc and free are important functions that help allocate and free up memory in programs.
- Different types of allocators exist, but they all track memory usage and prevent fragmentation.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36029087)

- A bug with Delphi 7's memory allocator caused cryptic errors due to Windows locking the entire allocation's VAD entry and out-of-memory errors in the kernel.
- The article covers various memory allocation techniques, including buddy allocators, slab allocators, and thread-local storage, as well as memory ownership and management in cross-language FFI API calls.
- The post provides interactive visuals and advice on optimizing memory allocation and dealing with memory leaks in C programming, with suggestions for further related topics.

## [Same Stop: Life after 26 years as a programmer for Apple](https://www.engineersneedart.com/blog/samestop/samestop.html)

- After retiring from 26 years of programming work at Apple, the author finds himself drawn back to programming in his spare time.
- Initially, there was a sense of relief that he would no longer have to worry about coding, but after four months, he started working on a small project to learn Python and play with e-ink displays.
- In 2023, the author finds himself back to programming full-time, discovering a newfound fascination with C and a desire to revisit/rewrite games he created over 30 years ago.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36026662)

- Developers discuss the difficulty of finding flow state as they get older and balancing life and work priorities.
- Debate focuses on the pros and cons of moving into managerial positions, with some preferring to stay in individual contributor roles.
- Passion for programming and the frustrations of corporate environments are discussed, with emphasis on the importance of finding enjoyment in work.

## [Meta fined $1.3B over data transfers to U.S.](https://www.wsj.com/articles/meta-fined-1-3-billion-over-data-transfers-to-u-s-b53dbb04)

- Meta (formerly known as Facebook) has been fined $1.3 billion by the European Union for transferring user data to the United States.
- This is the largest privacy penalty to date for the EU, and it highlights the importance of data privacy regulations.
- The penalty serves as a reminder that companies must comply with data transfer regulations to protect user privacy.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36028845)

- Meta has been fined $1.3 billion for violating EU data protection laws by transferring data to the US, prompting discussions on global governance, data privacy, and international laws.
- Meta's potential shutdown of its Irish subsidiary to avoid the fine may be complicated, and the cost and effort to comply with EU regulations far outweigh the proposed fine.
- There are differing opinions on data privacy regulations, with some criticizing the low fines imposed on companies like Meta, while others argue that the cost is just an additional expense for doing business and that companies can continue to misuse user privacy and data as long as they conduct a proper cost-benefit analysis.

## [Meta AI announces Massive Multilingual Speech code, models for 1000+ languages](https://github.com/facebookresearch/fairseq/tree/main/examples/mms)

- Meta AI's MMS project expands speech technology to over 1,000 languages with a single multilingual speech recognition model, language identification models, pretrained models, and text-to-speech models.
- The project aims to make it easier for people to access information and use devices in their preferred language.
- Users can access pretrained models and run inference commands for automatic speech recognition, text-to-speech, and language identification.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36034211)

- Meta AI has announced a multilingual speech code that covers 1000+ languages and is compatible with various language families.
- The code is accessible through GitHub, with visualization of language distribution and translations, and is available for download.
- Discussions in the comments include a need for more accessible documentation and demos of these models, along with debates on copyright and patentability of models and concerns about hardware requirements and fine-tuning for specific use cases.

## Cancelling HP Instant Ink prevents cartridges from being used

- HP Instant Ink customers report that cancelling their subscription results in their printers refusing to use cartridges purchased from other sources.
- HP Instant Ink is a subscription service that delivers ink to your doorstep when your printer runs low, according to HP.
- HP states in their terms of service that "Instant Ink cartridges remain property of HP and must be returned when your service ends.".

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36030156)

- HP Instant Ink users cannot use ink after cancelling their subscriptions or when subscriptions expire.
- Controversy arises due to users leasing ink rather than owning it, restricting the use of third-party cartridges and alternatives.
- HP's Instant Ink subscription service charges users based on the number of pages they print, which some find convenient while others feel it's a scummy practice.

## [Leaked government document shows Spain wants to ban end-to-end encryption](https://www.wired.com/story/europe-break-encryption-leaked-document-csa-law/)

- Spain wants to ban encryption for EU-based service providers, according to a leaked document that reveals members' opinions on encryption regulation and scanning private messages for illegal content.
- Many EU member states have debated whether end-to-end encrypted platforms should be protected as a way for Europeans to exercise a fundamental right to privacy, or weakened to prevent criminals from communicating outside the reach of law enforcement.
- The proposed law would require tech companies to scan their platforms, including users' private messages, to find illegal material, causing concern from cryptographers, technologists, and privacy advocates for its potential impact on end-to-end encryption.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36035641)

- Spain's leaked government document shows a proposal to ban end-to-end encryption, which critics argue violates privacy rights and may not effectively reduce crime or terrorism.
- Many EU countries' desire to scan people's messages for illegal content raises concerns about potential government overreach and abuse.
- Encryption is a fundamental component of the internet and limiting access to end-to-end encryption may be viewed as a violation of privacy, experts say.

## [Severance payments at Wikimedia Foundation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Wikipedia_Signpost/2023-05-22/News_and_notes)

- Katherine Maher, the outgoing CEO of the Wikimedia Foundation, received a severance package of $623,286 in 2021, in addition to her salary.
- COO Janeen Uzzell received a severance package of $324,748 in 2021, which sets a new record for the Foundation.
- The Foundation has announced that it will use a new standardised severance policy for staff at all levels of one month of severance pay for every year of their employment, up to nine months (unless local laws require otherwise) - any exceptions require a joint recommendation by the Head of Talent & Culture and the General Counsel, with final approval from the CEO.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36029115)

- Wikimedia Foundation criticized for paying high salaries and severance packages to top executives despite having ample net assets
- Wikimedia defends severance payments as necessary during pandemic and to retain top talent
- Debate on whether executive compensation should follow market rate dynamics in non-profit organizations, with some calling for fair compensation but not excessive pay for executives

## [Modern work requires attention – constant alerts steal it](https://stackoverflow.blog/2023/05/22/modern-work-requires-attention-constant-alerts-steal-it/)

- In the modern work environment, constant notifications and interruptions can steal precious attention needed to solve hard problems.
- The prevalence of chat programs, email inboxes, and project management apps make the contemporary workspace a noisy and demanding place, leading to decreased job satisfaction and burnout.
- To combat attention drain, individuals and organizations can try techniques like timeboxing, setting notifications and statuses, and reducing notifications by rethinking workflows and collaboration methods.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36034929)

- Modern work can be distracting due to increasingly complex tech stacks, leading to more handovers and less focus on actual work.
- The article discusses different organizational philosophies around communication and specialization, and comments suggest solutions such as turning off notifications or using focus time to increase productivity.
- Post discusses tips for working remotely and maximizing productivity, including scheduling all work, silencing notifications, being strategic about meetings, working asynchronously, and utilizing documentation and workflow tools.

## [Malicious VSCode extensions with more than 45k installs](https://blog.checkpoint.com/securing-the-cloud/malicious-vscode-extensions-with-more-than-45k-downloads-steal-pii-and-enable-backdoors/)

- CloudGuard Spectral discovered several malicious extensions on the Visual Studio Code (VSCode) marketplace, with these extensions allowing for theft of personally identifiable information (PII) and enabling of remote shell access to users' machines. The extensions have been downloaded more than 45,000 times.
- The malicious extensions include 'Prettiest java', 'Theme Darcula dark', and 'python-vscode', which were disguised as useful tools or themes but contained harmful code aimed at stealing user data or injecting malicious scripts.
- After discovering these extensions, CloudGuard Spectral alerted the VSCode team, leading to the extensions being removed from the marketplace. The event underscores the need for careful verification of all open-source components to avoid security risks.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36029020)

- Israeli firm JFrog found malicious Visual Studio Code extensions in the official marketplace, highlighting the need for verifying open-source components and finding more secure frameworks.
- Lack of proper security models in VSCode leaves plug-ins vulnerable, with social signals being unreliable security indicators.
- Some users suggest solutions such as explicit opt-in/opt-out for extension telemetry, sandboxing, or only using trusted authors.

## [The Open Buddhist University](https://buddhistuniversity.net/)

- The Open Buddhist University is a free website where you can take courses and learn about Buddhism.
- The website offers self-directed syllabi, a vast library, and rigorous academics.
- It is completely free and open-source, so you can take it with you wherever you go.

#### [Industry Reactions](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=36036997)

- The Open Buddhist University is an online resource created by a Buddhist monk and former software engineer.
- The website is not accredited as a university and is based on a personal library of Pali Canon materials.
- Critiques of the creator's junior rank are countered by supporters focusing on the website's content QA, easy cookie opt-out, zero latency search, and granular RSS feeds.
