---
slug: '/2024/11/03'
---

# 2024-11-03

## [Touchscreens are out, and tactile controls are back](https://spectrum.ieee.org/touchscreens)

- Some new car models are reverting from touchscreens to traditional knobs and buttons, a trend known as "re-buttonization.""
- Rachel Plotnick, an expert in this field, is gaining recognition for her insights into this shift in car design."

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42033241)

- Touchscreens are being replaced by tactile controls to address accessibility issues, particularly for sight-impaired and older individuals with dry skin.
- Physical controls, such as those on Garmin's Edge 840, are favored for their efficiency and reliability over touchscreens, which can lack tactile feedback and responsiveness.
- The shift back to tactile interfaces is viewed as a move towards improved usability and accessibility, countering the cost-driven rise of touchscreens influenced by devices like the iPhone.

## [If you need the money, don't take the job](https://bitfieldconsulting.com/posts/need-money)

- The author discusses the drawbacks of fixed-price contracts, highlighting that they often create poor incentives for both clients and consultants.- Emphasizes the importance of charging a fair hourly rate, providing realistic estimates, and ensuring clients value the consultant's work.- Advises against negotiating on price to avoid difficult clients and suggests setting a high rate to ensure clients take the consultant's advice seriously.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42032638)

- Fixed-price contracts may result in misaligned incentives, with clients pushing for more work and consultants doing the bare minimum.
- Hourly billing is suggested as a more flexible option that better aligns the interests of both clients and consultants.
- Retainers are highlighted as a way to provide stability for consultants, offering a consistent income stream.

## [Speed, scale and reliability: 25 years of Google datacenter networking evolution](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/networking/speed-scale-reliability-25-years-of-data-center-networking)

- Over 25 years, Google has developed its data-center networking to achieve high speed, scale, and reliability, culminating in the fifth-generation Jupiter network architecture with 13 Petabits per second (Pb/s) bandwidth.- Key principles in this evolution include efficiency, low latency, software-defined networking, and dynamic topology, with significant milestones in 2015, 2022, and 2023.- Google plans to continue advancing its network infrastructure to support artificial intelligence (AI) with further innovations in network scale, bandwidth, and reliability.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42031169)

- The discussion covers Google's 25-year evolution in data center networking, highlighting the shift from older systems like "Watchtower" to the advanced "Jupiter" system, which supports high-speed connections up to 100Gbps.
- Nvidia's contribution to networking hardware is noted, particularly through their ConnectX Network Interface Cards (NICs), which enable efficient GPU communication with minimal CPU involvement.
- There is speculation on Nvidia's future role in data center hardware and a debate on the industry's dependence on their technology, alongside discussions on the scale and visibility of data centers, advocating for smaller, less conspicuous facilities.

## [Security flaws found in Nvidia GeForce GPUs](https://www.pcworld.com/article/2504035/security-flaws-found-in-all-nvidia-geforce-gpus-update-drivers-asap.html)

- Nvidia has discovered eight high-severity security vulnerabilities in their GeForce GPU display drivers and software, potentially allowing attackers to access systems and steal data.- These vulnerabilities affect a range of Nvidia products, including GeForce, Nvidia RTX, Quadro, NVS, and Tesla, on both Windows and Linux operating systems.- Users are advised to update their drivers immediately to the latest versions: 566.03 for Windows and 565.57.01, 550.127.05, and 535.216.01 for Linux, available through Nvidia's Manual Driver Search tool, Nvidia App, and GeForce Experience app.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42030463)

- Nvidia GeForce GPUs have a security vulnerability in their Windows and Linux drivers, which could allow attackers to escalate permissions, leading to potential code execution and data tampering.- The flaw is particularly concerning for multi-user systems, systems with existing malware, and virtualization hosts, though it is not easily exploitable via browsers.- Nvidia has released updated drivers to mitigate the issue, and users are advised to update their drivers, especially on systems with untrusted users or existing malware.

## [Eighty Years of the Finite Element Method (2022)](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11831-022-09740-9)

- The article reviews the evolution of the Finite Element Method (FEM) over 80 years, highlighting its significance in engineering and scientific modeling, particularly in solid mechanics.- FEM's development is categorized into four periods: early years (1941-1965), golden age (1966-1991), industrial applications and materials modeling (1992-2017), and the present and future.- It emphasizes FEM's integration with modern computational techniques like machine learning, its impact on industries, and its role in advancing engineering education and software development.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42028569)

- The Finite Element Method (FEM) remains a fundamental tool in engineering, but its practical application has seen little innovation, with many advancements not succeeding in real-world use.
- Industry attention has moved towards Verification and Validation, emphasizing FEM's limitations, while commercial software such as ANSYS and NASTRAN continue to lead the market.
- Emerging methods like Isogeometric Analysis (IGA) and Neural Operators offer potential but have not yet gained widespread adoption.

## [Next Generation Out of Band Garbage Collection](https://railsatscale.com/2024-10-23-next-generation-oob-gc/)

- In 2023, Shopify optimized Ruby's garbage collector by implementing out-of-band garbage collection to reduce latency, though initial heuristics were not fully effective.- By March 2024, a proof of concept was developed to disable major garbage collections during request cycles, leading to the introduction of a new method, GC.config(rgengc_allow_full_mark: true/false), in Ruby 3.4.0-preview2.- Implementing this method on 50% of Shopify's servers resulted in significant latency improvements, with modest capacity gains, and future efforts will focus on optimizing minor collections.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42028833)

- The discussion highlights the advantages of using Hack/PHP for HTTP requests, focusing on its stateless functional core, request-scoped objects, and cooperative async/await model, which help avoid threading issues.
- It also explores garbage collection (GC) in Ruby-on-Rails and other languages, suggesting performance improvements through request-scoped memory management and advanced GC techniques, such as those in Java Virtual Machine's (JVM) Z Garbage Collector (ZGC).
- The challenges of switching programming languages for large codebases, like Instagram's use of Python, are noted, emphasizing the complexity of rewriting systems despite potential performance benefits.

## [Matrix 2.0 Is Here](https://matrix.org/blog/2024/10/29/matrix-2.0-is-here/?resubmit)

- Matrix 2.0 has been launched to position Matrix as a mainstream-ready, open, decentralized, and secure communication protocol.- Key features include Simplified Sliding Sync for instant login, Next Generation Auth with OpenID Connect, and MatrixRTC for encrypted multiparty VoIP/Video.- The update focuses on improving encryption reliability and requires community financial support for ongoing development.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42032387)

- Matrix 2.0 has been released, featuring improvements to the chat protocol, including invisible encryption and native Matrix Encrypted Multiparty VoIP/Video.
- A new "quick start" guide using docker-compose is being developed to simplify the setup process, with matrix-docker-ansible-deploy recommended for ease of hosting.
- The release aims to enhance speed and user-friendliness, though some users have concerns about specific features like audio calls in Element X, while others are optimistic about the potential for peer-to-peer (P2P) Matrix.

## [Ractor – a Rust Actor Framework](https://slawlor.github.io/ractor/quickstart/)

- The guide introduces Ractor, a Rust library for actor-based programming, covering key concepts like messaging, installation, and creating actors.
- It explains the "cast" (fire-and-forget) and "call" (wait for reply) messaging schemes, similar to Erlang, and provides code examples for creating and running actors.
- The guide also details how to add state to actors and use `RpcReplyPort` for inter-actor communication, with examples of stateful actor implementation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42030625)

- Ractor is a Rust actor framework that emphasizes supervision, a feature inspired by Erlang's OTP, to manage actor systems effectively.- It integrates with Tokio and has a companion library, ractor_cluster, for distributed scenarios, and is notably used at Meta for distributed overload protection in Rust Thrift servers.- The framework's design, including the use of async_trait, is shaped by Rust's evolving features, but integration with Erlang systems remains complex due to differing messaging semantics and VM requirements.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Touchscreens are out, and tactile controls are back" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Touchscreens%20are%20out%2C%20and%20tactile%20controls%20are%20back&subheading=Sunday%2C%20November%203%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
