---
slug: '/2024/11/05'
---

# 2024-11-05

## [USFS decision to halt prescribed burns in California is history repeating](https://cepr.net/us-forest-service-decision-to-halt-prescribed-burns-in-california-is-history-repeating/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42046596)

- The U.S. Forest Service has paused prescribed burns in California due to budget constraints, prioritizing resources for active wildfire fighting.
- This decision has ignited debate over forest management strategies, with critics emphasizing the importance of prescribed burns in preventing larger fires.
- The discussion highlights the need for improved funding, prevention measures, and the roles of federal and state responsibilities, alongside the impact of climate change on wildfire risks.

## [Nvidia and its partners built a system to bypass U.S. export restrictions](https://twitter.com/kakashiii111/status/1853433531260649532)

- Nvidia and its partners developed a method to circumvent U.S. export restrictions on AI chips, targeting regions like the Middle East, Russia, and China.
- The strategy included routing Graphics Processing Units (GPUs) through particular channels to ensure delivery to Chinese companies.
- This move highlights ongoing challenges in enforcing export controls on advanced technology.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42048065)

- Nvidia and its partners are accused of creating a system to circumvent U.S. export restrictions, enabling chips to be sent to China despite existing bans.
- The chips are produced in Taiwan, a region China considers a rogue province, and any change in Taiwan's status could impact chip production and exports to the U.S.
- The situation is intricate, involving geopolitical tensions and economic interests, with critics questioning Nvidia's awareness and compliance with export laws.

## [Hacking 700M Electronic Arts Accounts](https://battleda.sh/blog/ea-account-takeover)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42052143)

- A hacker accessed 700 million Electronic Arts (EA) accounts, exposing significant flaws in EA's account management and security systems.- Users are frustrated with EA's unclear account suspension process and technical issues, such as difficulties in linking Xbox accounts.- The breach was facilitated by hardcoded credentials in a game's executable, and EA's absence of a bug bounty program may leave vulnerabilities unreported, raising concerns about their security practices.

## [Albertsons kills rural grocers with land use restrictions](https://www.thebignewsletter.com/p/how-albertsons-kills-rural-grocers)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42046196)

- Albertsons is employing land use restrictions through deed covenants to prevent new grocery stores from opening on properties they sell, limiting market competition.
- Critics compare this practice to a corporation acting like a pseudo-government, similar to Homeowners Associations (HOAs), and argue it should be illegal.
- In some instances, such as in Washington state, these restrictions have faced legal challenges and fines for violating antitrust laws, sparking ongoing debate about regulation to ensure fair competition.

## [New documentary reveals that 21,000 laborers have died working Saudi Vision 2030](https://www.archpaper.com/2024/10/documentary-reveals-21000-workers-killed-saudi-vision-2030-neom/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42052105)

- A new documentary alleges that 21,000 laborers have died while working on Saudi Vision 2030 projects, averaging 3,000 deaths annually, prompting disbelief and concern.
- The reported high death toll raises questions about working conditions and the lack of media coverage, drawing comparisons to historical labor abuses.
- Critics suggest that some deaths may be due to natural causes, but the situation underscores ongoing issues of worker exploitation in the Gulf region and the broader implications of foreign labor practices.

## [Netflix Europe offices raided in tax fraud probe](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cwy1vze09wwo)

- French and Dutch authorities raided Netflix's offices in Paris and Amsterdam as part of a tax fraud investigation that began in November 2022.
- The investigation focuses on suspicions of tax fraud and undeclared work, scrutinizing Netflix's tax filings from 2019 to 2021.
- Reports suggest Netflix minimized its French tax payments by declaring revenue in the Netherlands until 2021, despite having 10 million subscribers in France.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42051643)

- Netflix's European offices were raided due to a tax fraud investigation, focusing on potential profit minimization in France by declaring revenue in the Netherlands post-2021.
- This investigation mirrors scrutiny faced by other US companies, such as Uber, for similar tax evasion practices in Europe.
- The situation underscores the difficulties in enforcing tax laws on remote-first companies and the intricate nature of international tax regulations.

## [Machines of Loving Grace](https://www.clunyjournal.com/p/machines-of-loving-grace)

- Raegan Bird shares a personal narrative intertwining her experiences with technology, pregnancy, and loss, highlighting the profound impact of technology on personal life.
- The story includes challenges such as being advised to change jobs due to a lack of focus on Artificial Intelligence (AI) and a hacked Zoom seminar.
- Bird reflects on the importance of human connection amidst technological interventions, particularly during her pregnancy, where her son was born with heart issues and passed away shortly after birth.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42045509)

- The article critiques technology's insensitivity, using AI's inappropriate responses, such as confetti in Outlook Messenger during sensitive situations, as an example.
- It underscores the necessity for technology designs that are more aligned with human sensitivities and interests.
- The discussion references broader societal implications, including Adam Curtis's documentary on technology's impact and the challenges posed by direct democracy, while reflecting on AI's current influence in academia and industry.

## [Blog Writing for Developers (2023)](https://rmoff.net/2023/07/19/blog-writing-for-developers/)

- The author, a DevEx engineer, shares writing tips for developers, emphasizing the importance of clarity, personality, and uniformity in writing.- Key advice includes using a clear structure, starting the writing process without delay, and utilizing tools like Pomodoro timers and platforms such as Obsidian and Grammarly.- The author recommends resources like "Blogging for Devs" and Larry McEnerney's lecture on effective writing, while advising against low-quality, growth-driven blogging styles.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42045477)

- Blogging for developers can enhance personal clarity and provide value to readers by documenting the learning process and organizing thoughts.
- Overcoming perfectionism by lowering standards can help developers publish more effectively, offering fresh perspectives even from beginners.
- Tools such as Hugo and Astro facilitate easy blog setup, enabling writers to concentrate on content creation rather than technical details.

## [Pagination widows, or, why I'm embarrassed about my eBook (2023)](https://clagnut.com/blog/2426)

- The author self-published a book on Web Typography, with the ebook version achieving greater success than the physical copies.- The author attempted to replicate the print design in the ebook using HTML and CSS but faced rendering issues in Apple Books, particularly with headings being separated from their paragraphs.- Despite existing CSS solutions for such issues, browser support is inadequate, especially in Safari and Firefox, and the annual Interop arrangement for browser priorities did not select breaking controls for 2024, highlighting the need for better typographic support in ebooks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42047677)

- The article highlights the challenges in eBook formatting, particularly with pagination and CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) support, leading to poor layout and rendering issues.
- Current eBook formats like EPUB struggle with complex elements, while PDFs, which maintain layout integrity, lack support, contributing to the decline in print quality.
- Despite technological advancements, eBook formatting remains complex, with many readers favoring traditional books for their superior layout and readability.

## [FFmpeg up to 94x performance boost after implementing handwritten assembly code](https://www.tomshardware.com/pc-components/cpus/ffmpeg-devs-boast-of-up-to-94x-performance-boost-after-implementing-handwritten-avx-512-assembly-code)

- FFmpeg developers have achieved up to 94 times performance improvements by using handwritten AVX-512 assembly code, enhancing video processing speeds significantly.
- This optimization is beneficial for users with AVX-512-capable hardware, such as AMD's Ryzen 9000-series CPUs, although Intel's recent processors have AVX-512 disabled.
- The FFmpeg project highlights the potential of hand-optimized assembly code in performance-critical applications, despite ongoing debates about its relevance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42045212)

- FFmpeg, a popular multimedia framework, has achieved up to a 94x performance increase through the use of handwritten assembly code, which optimizes the software's efficiency.
- This significant performance boost highlights the potential of low-level programming techniques, such as assembly language, in enhancing software speed and functionality.
- The development is noteworthy for software engineers interested in performance optimization and the practical applications of assembly code in modern software projects.

## [Hacker Fab](https://docs.hackerfab.org/hacker-fab-space)

- The initiative aims to democratize nanofabrication by creating DIY versions of nanofabrication tools and speeding up integrated circuit prototyping, similar to 3D printing, through open-source hardware.
- The project, inspired by Sam Zeloof and started by Elio Bourcart, Alexander Hakim, and Sam Zeloof at Carnegie Mellon University, encourages contributions from individuals without prior nanofabrication experience, using accessible and modifiable low-cost hardware.
- The project is supported by a community on Discord, with documentation transitioning to Gitbook, and operates under open-source licenses, including CERN-OHL-W for hardware and MPL v2.0 for software.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42051968)

- Hacker Fab explores the challenges and aspirations for hobbyist integrated circuit (IC) fabrication, noting that while 3D printing has increased interest, the complexity and cost remain significant barriers.- University labs can handle IC fabrication with funding, but hobbyists face difficulties due to the need for specialized equipment and clean rooms.- The discussion emphasizes the potential for more accessible industry options, such as flexible printed circuits, and the necessity for innovation in low-cost prototyping to make IC development more accessible, similar to the advancements in 3D printing and printed circuit board (PCB) prototyping.

## [Study reveals blood sugar control is a key factor in slowing brain aging](https://www.bgu.ac.il/en/news-and-articles/blood-sugar-control-is-key-factor-in-slowing-brain-aging/)

- A study led by Ben-Gurion University underscores the significance of blood sugar control in decelerating brain aging, highlighting the Mediterranean diet's benefits.- The DIRECT PLUS Brain MRI trial found that better blood sugar levels correlate with positive changes in brain regions impacted by aging, suggesting dietary changes could mitigate cognitive decline.- The research involved 300 participants over 18 months, using MRI to monitor brain health, and found that the Green Mediterranean diet, high in polyphenols, may support brain health and reduce age-related cognitive decline.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42049418)

- A study emphasizes the importance of controlling blood sugar to slow brain aging, suggesting that continuous glucose monitors, such as the Freestyle Libre 3, can be beneficial.
- Users discuss the regional availability of these devices and the role of diet in managing blood sugar, with varying opinions on their accuracy and necessity.
- The conversation expands to the broader impact of sugar on health and the difficulties of avoiding added sugars in contemporary diets.

## [Failure Analysis of the Arecibo 305 Meter Telescope Collapse](https://nap.nationalacademies.org/read/26982/chapter/1)

- The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine released a report analyzing the collapse of the Arecibo Observatory's 305-meter telescope in Puerto Rico.- The report identifies zinc creep in cable sockets as a primary cause of the collapse, based on forensic investigations and expert consultations.- It provides lessons and recommendations for the safe operation of similar facilities, and is available for purchase or free download from NAP.edu.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42051368)

- The collapse of the Arecibo Telescope was linked to zinc electroplasticity (EP) in its sockets, a phenomenon not well-documented under low currents over extended periods.
- The unique electromagnetic environment of the telescope was believed to have accelerated zinc creep, leading to structural failures, which were not addressed with urgency by engineers.
- The collapse, deemed preventable with proper maintenance, significantly impacted scientific research, especially in the field of gravitational wave studies.

## [IMDb SQL Best Movie Finder](https://www.imdb-sql.com/)

- A new static web app, IMDb SQL Best Movie Finder, has been developed, enabling users to query a database of 1.5 million IMDb titles using SQL directly in their browser.- The app operates entirely on the client-side, meaning all data processing occurs locally on the user's machine, enhancing privacy and performance.- This tool is significant for users interested in exploring IMDb data without server-side dependencies, offering a unique and efficient way to interact with large datasets.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42049936)

- A new static web app, IMDb SQL Best Movie Finder, enables users to query a database of 1.5 million IMDb titles using SQL directly in their browser without a server.
- The app operates entirely client-side, loading a 100MB parquet file with IMDb data, which is cached for efficiency, and allows users to explore and share queries.
- The source code is accessible on GitHub, and users have proposed enhancements like filtering by streaming services or excluding specific countries.

## [Nutrient levels in retail grocery stores](https://altered.substack.com/p/walmart)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42045140)

- Frozen produce can often retain more nutrients than fresh produce because it is picked at peak ripeness and quickly frozen, preserving its nutritional value.
- Concerns about nutrient levels in produce include factors like soil depletion, long supply chains, and the decline in nutrient levels due to modern agricultural practices.
- There is a suggestion to label produce with harvest dates instead of "best by" dates to provide consumers with better information about the freshness and nutrient content of their food.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="USFS decision to halt prescribed burns in California is history repeating" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=USFS%20decision%20to%20halt%20prescribed%20burns%20in%20California%20is%20history%20repeating&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20November%205%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
