---
slug: '/2024/11/12'
---

# 2024-11-12

## [How I ship projects at big tech companies](https://www.seangoedecke.com/how-to-ship/)

- Shipping projects in big tech involves more than just coding; it requires prioritization, comprehensive understanding, and effective communication.
- Successful project shipping demands anticipating problems, creating fallback plans, and deploying early and often to identify issues.
- The ultimate goal of shipping is to satisfy company leadership, requiring courage, focus, and maintaining leadership trust.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42111031)

- Successful project completion in large organizations often hinges on one individual having a comprehensive understanding and driving the project to align with company goals.
- Navigating internal politics and securing management approval are crucial steps in the process, as these factors determine whether a project is considered "shipped."
- The definition of success in shipping projects may prioritize company objectives and stakeholder expectations over user satisfaction, highlighting a potential misalignment with user needs.

## [I Don't Have Spotify](https://github.com/sjdonado/idonthavespotify)

- The tool allows users to convert Spotify links to other streaming services, providing links to tracks on platforms like YouTube Music, Apple Music, Deezer, and SoundCloud.
- Users can get a quick audio preview if the link is from Spotify, enhancing the convenience of the service.
- The service can be accessed through a Web App or Raycast Extension, with contributions to the project welcomed via pull requests (PR).

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42110877)

- A GitHub user introduced a tool for transferring playlists between Spotify and other music platforms, sparking a discussion on the need for a universal music identifier akin to ISBN for books.
- Users shared their experiences with services like TuneMyMusic and Soundiiz, highlighting the challenges of transferring playlists due to the absence of a standardized system.
- The conversation also addressed the limitations of streaming services and emphasized the advantages of owning music files in the digital era.

## [Improving Steam Client Stability on Linux](https://ttimo.typepad.com/blog/2024/11/the-steam-client-update-earlier-this-week-mentions-fixed-some-miscellaneous-common-crashes-in-the-linux-notes-which-i-wante.html)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42110677)

- Efforts are being made to enhance the stability of the Steam client on Linux, particularly addressing issues with environment variable handling in the GNU C Library (glibc).
- The primary challenge is to make the `setenv` function thread-safe without causing memory leaks or disrupting existing applications, with some patches currently under review.
- Users are sharing their experiences with Steam on Linux, highlighting both performance and stability issues, as well as the desire for a more console-like gaming experience.

## [Leaving and Waving](https://deannadikeman.com/leaving-and-waving)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42113113)

## [YubiKey still selling old stock with vulnerable firmware](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42110901)

- YubiKey is allegedly selling older stock with firmware susceptible to the EUCLEAK attack, rather than discarding them, as reported by a reader of Fefe's Blog.
- The EUCLEAK attack is a security vulnerability that could potentially compromise the integrity of the YubiKey devices.
- This situation raises concerns about the security practices of YubiKey, particularly regarding the handling of outdated and vulnerable products.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42110901)

- YubiKey is allegedly selling older stock with firmware vulnerable to the EUCLEAK attack, which requires physical access and specialized tools, posing a risk mainly to highly motivated attackers.- The situation has led to debates about the balance between risk and usability for personal use, with some users criticizing YubiKey for not offering replacements for compromised keys.- This issue has prompted discussions on trust and security in hardware tokens, with some users exploring alternatives such as Nitrokey.

## [The EdTech Revolution Has Failed](https://www.afterbabel.com/p/the-edtech-revolution-has-failed)

- Despite the widespread integration of digital devices in classrooms, the anticipated academic improvements have not been realized, with global test scores in math, science, and reading declining.- Studies indicate that frequent computer use in schools often leads to poorer learning outcomes, primarily due to the encouragement of multitasking, which hinders effective learning.- Some regions, such as Europe and Southeast Asia, are shifting back to traditional teaching methods, suggesting that American schools might also benefit from reducing digital reliance in education.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42115597)

## [Visualizing World War II](https://nathangoldwag.wordpress.com/2024/10/26/visualizing-the-past-world-war-ii/)

- The blog post delves into the author's passion for history and maps, particularly focusing on World War II.
- It emphasizes the importance of maps in understanding historical events and how they reflect changing perceptions over time.
- A collection of World War II maps is shared, showcasing their use in newspapers to inform the public about the war's progress, including aspects like territorial changes and strategic insights.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42110588)

- A project initially used Google Maps to track World War II battles but found it overly detailed, leading to the creation of a chronological series of WWII movies to visualize the war's timeline.
- Recommended resources for understanding WWII include "The West Point Atlas of War" and Martin Gilbert's book "The Second World War," highlighting the interest in a historical map project with a date slider to track unit positions over time.
- Discussions arose about the challenges of modern war reporting compared to WWII-era journalism, with suggestions for films and books to gain a comprehensive understanding of the war.

## [Bus Number – The GitHub plugin my coworkers asked me not to write](https://www.scannedinavian.com/the-github-plugin-my-coworkers-asked-me-not-to-write.html)

- Shae Erisson's blog explores a GitHub plugin concept to calculate a project's "bus factor," which indicates how many team members can leave before a project is jeopardized.
- The idea was inspired by a 2015 layoff experience, but there are concerns it could be misused by management to identify expendable employees.
- Shae and collaborator mclare faced technical challenges but calculated a truck factor of 12 for the Linux kernel, suggesting a decline from the original study's 80, indicating bus factors have worsened over time.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42111260)

- The GitHub plugin aims to identify "knowledge islands" in codebases, which are areas where only a few team members have expertise, to aid in handover planning.
- While the tool is intended to increase visibility and reduce risk by broadening team understanding of critical code areas, there are concerns about potential misuse by management for layoffs or performance evaluations.
- Critics argue that relying solely on these metrics can be detrimental, as they may not accurately reflect the complexities of team dynamics and project dependencies.

## [When muscles work out, they help neurons to grow, a new study shows](https://news.mit.edu/2024/when-muscles-work-out-they-help-neurons-grow-1112)

- MIT engineers found that exercise aids nerve healing by releasing myokines during muscle contractions, which significantly promote neuron growth.- Neurons exposed to myokines grew four times farther than those not exposed, and physical stretching of neurons also stimulated growth, mimicking muscle contractions.- The study suggests exercise-related therapies could be crucial for nerve repair, potentially leading to treatments for nerve injuries and neurodegenerative diseases.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42115515)

- A recent study reveals that exercising muscles promotes the growth of motor neurons, which are crucial for transmitting signals from the brain to muscles, potentially aiding recovery from nerve damage or spinal cord injuries.- The research underscores the significance of exercise for overall health, contributing to mental clarity and improved sleep quality.- The study also discusses lifestyle factors such as alcohol consumption and sleep, highlighting the interconnected nature of physical and mental well-being.

## [What I wish someone told me about Postgres](https://challahscript.com/what_i_wish_someone_told_me_about_postgres)

- The author shares insights on working with PostgreSQL, emphasizing the importance of data normalization, using foreign keys, and following PostgreSQL's best practices for data types and naming conventions.
- Key SQL and psql tips include understanding that SQL is not case-sensitive, handling NULL values as "unknown," and using tools like pagers and expanded views for better readability.
- The author highlights the significance of indexes, the impact of long-held locks on applications, and the careful use of JSONB due to its potential performance drawbacks compared to standard columns.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42111896)

- The discussion emphasizes the importance of query legibility in Postgres, with some users preferring all caps for keywords, although syntax highlighting tools have reduced this necessity.- There is a consensus on normalizing data in Postgres unless performance issues necessitate denormalization, and there is debate over the use of JSON columns for structured data storage.- The use of Large Language Models (LLMs) like ChatGPT for query optimization is suggested, but users are cautioned about potential data privacy and accuracy concerns.

## [This morning for no obvious reason, I remembered the Fuel Rats](https://hachyderm.io/@danderson/113465421567555186)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42112005)

- The Fuel Rats are a group in the game Elite: Dangerous known for rescuing stranded players, showcasing high skill and engaging rescue stories.
- Their motto, "We've got fuel, you don't. Any questions?" highlights their mission and dedication to helping others in the game.
- The discussion emphasizes the self-organizing nature and cooperative spirit of gaming communities, drawing parallels to similar camaraderie in games like EVE Online.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="How I ship projects at big tech companies" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=How%20I%20ship%20projects%20at%20big%20tech%20companies&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20November%2012%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
