---
slug: '/2024/11/16'
---

# 2024-11-16

## [Half-Life 2: 20th Anniversary Update](https://www.half-life.com/en/halflife2/20th)

- Valve has released the Half-Life 2 20th Anniversary Update on Steam, featuring new content and enhancements.- The update includes developer commentary, Steam Workshop support, improved graphics, and bug fixes, along with new gamepad and input settings.- It also incorporates Episode One and Two expansions, and offers additional content like wallpapers and soundtracks for download.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42151865)

- Half-Life 2's 20th Anniversary Update is now available, providing the game and its sequel episodes for free on Steam until the 18th, including bug fixes and enhancements.
- The update has reignited discussions about the game's legacy, the possibility of a Half-Life 3, and Valve's development philosophy.
- Fans are encouraged to explore the anniversary page for Easter eggs, and the update has been well-received for its attention to detail and the chance to revisit a classic game.

## [Maybe Bluesky has "won"](https://anderegg.ca/2024/11/15/maybe-bluesky-has-won)

- Bluesky is gaining traction as an alternative to X, but it is not yet fully decentralized or federated, relying on its own servers.- The platform employs the AT Protocol, which includes Personal Data Servers, Relays, and App Views, allowing users to host their own data, though this requires technical expertise and can be costly.- While Bluesky is free and offers features like domain-based usernames and customizable moderation, its financial model depends on domain sales, raising questions about its long-term sustainability.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42150278)

- Bluesky is gaining attention as a more pleasant alternative to Mastodon, offering a filtering system that reduces divisive political content.
- Users appreciate Bluesky's simplicity and control over content visibility, drawing comparisons to early Twitter, though concerns about its openness and data use persist.
- The platform is experiencing growth as users migrate from Twitter, which is perceived as increasingly politically charged, indicating Bluesky's potential to become a significant social media player.

## [Tesla has the highest fatal accident rate of all auto brands, study finds](https://www.roadandtrack.com/news/a62919131/tesla-has-highest-fatal-accident-rate-of-all-auto-brands-study/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42150443)

- A study indicates that Tesla has the highest fatal accident rate among auto brands, despite its advanced safety features.
- The study suggests that driver behavior and conditions significantly contribute to the high accident rate, sparking debates on politics, media influence, and car design.
- The study's methodology and the impact of driver demographics, as well as car features like touchscreens and vehicle weight, are subjects of scrutiny and discussion.

## [Netflix buffering issues: Boxing fans complain about Jake Paul vs. Mike Tyson](https://www.sportingnews.com/us/boxing/news/netflix-buffering-livestream-issues-boxing-jake-paul-mike-tyson/327ee972d4b14d90cc370461)

- Boxing fans encountered buffering issues on Netflix during the Jake Paul vs. Mike Tyson fight, leading to lag, choppy analysis, and black screens.
- The streaming issues have raised concerns about Netflix's ability to handle live sports events, especially with upcoming NFL games scheduled for Christmas Day.
- Some viewers opted for Antonio Brown's livestream on X, which garnered significant attention with 6.4 million viewers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42153953)

- Netflix experienced major buffering issues during the Jake Paul vs. Mike Tyson fight, resulting in numerous complaints about the live streaming quality.
- Critics point out that Netflix's infrastructure, primarily designed for pre-recorded content, may not be well-suited for live streaming, unlike platforms such as YouTube and Amazon.
- The incident underscores Netflix's challenges in the live sports streaming market, especially with future events like NFL games on the horizon.

## [Llama-OCR: Document to Markdown](https://llamaocr.com/)

- The post introduces a method to convert images into markdown format using llama-ocr and Together AI OCR, which are optical character recognition tools.
- Users can upload an image to receive structured markdown, facilitating easier text extraction and formatting from images.
- Example code in JavaScript is provided, demonstrating how to use the llama-ocr library to process an image file and obtain markdown output.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42154410)

- Llama-OCR is a tool that converts documents into Markdown format using Llama 3.2 vision and is available as an npm package.
- Future updates are planned to include features like PDF parsing and JSON output, although current users report mixed experiences with image handling and output consistency.
- The tool is hosted on together.ai, with ongoing discussions about its performance and potential improvements, including suggestions for using local models or alternative OCR tools for better accuracy.

## [Consuming the Bluesky firehose for less than $2.50/mo](https://bsky.bad-example.com/consuming-the-firehose-cheaply/)

- Bluesky's public data, comprising 15 million users, is available through a websocket JSON feed named Jetstream, enabling real-time network monitoring.
- A simple application was developed to listen for delete events from the Jetstream feed, displaying anonymized deleted text momentarily.
- The app operates on Fly's smallest instance for $2.24/month, efficiently managing post events, content filtering, text caching, and broadcasting deleted posts, though more complex applications may face scalability challenges.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42152362)

- Bluesky offers a cost-effective way to access its data stream, known as the "firehose," for under $2.50/month, attracting user interest.
- The platform is noted for features like using a website as a username and easy image sharing on iOS, drawing comparisons to early Twitter.
- Bluesky's decentralized structure and community-driven development highlight its focus on open data access, contrasting with Twitter's current restrictions.

## [First Impressions: Lenovo T14s with Qualcomm Snapdragon ARM64 CPU](https://lists.freebsd.org/archives/freebsd-hackers/2024-November/004068.html)

- The Lenovo T14s with a Qualcomm Snapdragon ARM64 CPU is being evaluated, highlighting a shift from the traditional X86 architecture due to perceived inefficiencies.
- Initial setup on FreeBSD-current required ARM64-specific patches, with some hardware components like the screen and NVME working, but others like the keyboard and USB-C ports not functioning.
- Performance testing showed the device built the world in 3210 seconds using 24 Wh of energy, attributed to its 12 real CPUs, leading to a positive recommendation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42150933)

- The Lenovo T14s with Qualcomm Snapdragon ARM64 CPU receives mixed reviews, with users noting issues such as non-functional keyboard, mouse, and USB-C ports.
- Comparisons are drawn to Linux phones, highlighting similar limitations and compatibility challenges with ARM Linux desktops.
- Despite current issues, there is optimism about future improvements and better driver support for ARM architecture in Lenovo laptops.

## [Yggdrasil Network](https://yggdrasil-network.github.io/)

- Yggdrasil is an experimental routing scheme aimed at providing a decentralized and future-proof alternative to current Internet routing protocols, particularly for large-scale mesh networks.- It offers features such as scalability, self-healing, encryption, and cross-platform support, functioning on various operating systems including Linux, macOS, Windows, iOS, and Android.- Despite being in the alpha stage, Yggdrasil is stable for daily use, offering end-to-end encrypted IPv6 routing and can be configured over both IPv4 and IPv6 networks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42155780)

- Yggdrasil Network is an experimental routing protocol focused on decentralization and scalability, inspired by cjdns but without a strict hierarchy.
- Despite lacking a clear protocol specification, Yggdrasil has evolved with significant updates in versions 0.4 and 0.5, improving network latency.
- The protocol uses IPv6 addresses derived from public keys, which could lead to address collisions, and is not primarily designed for anonymity.

## [Kyanos: eBPF-based network issue analysis tool](https://github.com/hengyoush/kyanos)

- Kyanos is an eBPF-based tool designed for network analysis, capable of capturing and analyzing various network requests such as HTTP, Redis, and MySQL.
- It features advanced traffic filtering options by IP, port, process, container, and protocol, along with kernel-level latency insights and automatic SSL traffic decryption.
- The tool is lightweight, requires minimal dependencies, and is compatible with Linux kernel versions 3.10 and 4.14 or higher, making it accessible for a wide range of users.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42154583)

- Kyanos is a network analysis tool based on eBPF (extended Berkeley Packet Filter), offering real-time insights for troubleshooting and performance optimization.
- It currently supports specific protocols, including HTTP, MySQL, and Redis, which some users see as a limitation.
- Discussions highlight the relevance of technologies like RDMA (Remote Direct Memory Access) and OFED (OpenFabrics Enterprise Distribution) in high-performance computing, alongside a mention of a book for further learning about eBPF.

## [M4 MacBook Pros use a quantum dot (QD) film rather than a red KSF phosphor film](https://twitter.com/DSCCRoss/status/1857208745014776215)

- Apple's new MacBook Pro (M4) introduces the use of quantum dot (QD) film, replacing the previously used red KSF phosphor film.
- The shift to QD film marks a significant change, as Apple had previously favored KSF for its efficiency and cadmium-free properties.
- This update highlights Apple's ongoing efforts to enhance display technology in its devices.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42152928)

- The new M4 MacBook Pros have switched from using a red KSF phosphor film to a quantum dot film, as identified through spectrum analysis rather than an official Apple announcement.
- Quantum dots are expected to enhance the color gamut and motion performance of the displays, although response times are still a concern for MacBook displays.
- Apple collaborates with display manufacturers such as Samsung, LG, and BOE for research and development to meet specific product requirements.

## [YC is wrong about LLMs for chip design](https://www.zach.be/p/yc-is-wrong-about-llms-for-chip-design)

- YC's proposal to use Large Language Models (LLMs) for chip design is criticized for not matching the expertise of human engineers in creating innovative chip architectures.
- While LLMs might lower design costs, they are unlikely to revolutionize chip design in high-value markets, similar to past attempts like high-level synthesis (HLS).
- LLMs could be beneficial in verification processes, potentially addressing the talent shortage in this area, but they are not expected to produce superior chips or open new markets.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42156516)

- The discussion highlights skepticism about the effectiveness of Large Language Models (LLMs) in chip design, with comparisons to past tech hype cycles like blockchain.- Critics argue that LLMs are overhyped and not yet reliable for complex chip design tasks, which require deep expertise beyond current AI capabilities.- There is uncertainty about whether future advancements will overcome the limitations of LLMs in specialized fields with limited training data.

## [FTC to launch investigation into Microsoft's cloud business](https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2024/11/ftc-to-launch-investigation-into-microsofts-cloud-business/)

- The FTC is investigating Microsoft's cloud business for potential anti-competitive practices, particularly concerning Azure's licensing terms.
- Allegations include increased fees and Office 365's incompatibility with rival cloud platforms, making it challenging for customers to switch.
- This investigation is part of a broader regulatory effort by the FTC, with similar scrutiny from UK and EU regulators, as the cloud market continues to expand.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42152068)

- The FTC is investigating Microsoft's cloud business for potential anti-competitive practices, including raising fees for customers who switch providers and making Office 365 incompatible with competing cloud services.
- This investigation is part of a larger examination of big tech companies, reflecting ongoing concerns about their market power and business practices.
- There is debate regarding the FTC's motivations, with opinions divided on whether the actions are a necessary regulation of tech giants or politically driven.

## [Installed an open source garage door opener, and I'm loving it](https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2024/11/i-too-installed-an-open-source-garage-door-opener-and-am-loving-it/)

- OpenGarage is an open-source garage door opener that integrates seamlessly with Home Assistant, offering enhanced control and customization for home automation.
- It consists of a small ESP board with an ultrasonic sensor, controllable via a web browser or mobile app, making installation straightforward.
- OpenGarage allows for automation of tasks, such as turning on lights when the garage door opens, highlighting its versatility and appeal for DIY home automation enthusiasts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42150376)

- The post discusses the use of open-source garage door openers, highlighting their flexibility and local control compared to subscription-based models like myQ.
- Users express frustration with myQ's subscription model and lack of third-party support, leading them to explore alternatives such as RATGDO, Meross, and ESPHome.
- Home automation enthusiasts are integrating these open-source solutions with systems like MQTT, Home Assistant, and Z-Wave for enhanced functionality and seamless control.

## [Non-elementary group-by aggregations in Polars vs pandas](https://labs.quansight.org/blog/dataframe-group-by)

- At PyData Berlin 2024, Polars, a data processing library, was highlighted for its advanced features such as lazy execution, Rust integration, and multithreading.
- A significant innovation of Polars is its support for non-elementary group-by aggregations, allowing users to perform complex operations more efficiently than pandas.
- The blog suggests that new dataframe libraries should innovate beyond pandas' API, with Polars serving as an example through its expressive syntax and enhanced data manipulation capabilities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42152076)

- Polars is becoming popular over Pandas for non-basic group-by operations due to its resemblance to Apache Spark and superior speed.- Users value Polars for its quick performance and simple setup, particularly with smaller datasets, despite Pandas' established ecosystem.- The decision between using Pandas or Polars is influenced by specific use cases, performance requirements, and user preference, with some opting for SQL or DuckDB for complex data tasks.

## [M4 Macs can't virtualise older macOS](https://eclecticlight.co/2024/11/14/m4-macs-cant-virtualise-older-macos/)

- M4 Macs are unable to virtualize macOS versions earlier than 13.4 Ventura, resulting in a black screen during boot attempts for older macOS virtual machines (VMs).
- The issue likely arises early in the kernel boot phase, and resolving it would necessitate Apple updating older macOS kernels, which is improbable.
- M1, M2, and M3 Macs can virtualize macOS Monterey 12.0.1 and later, but Big Sur cannot be virtualized on any Apple silicon.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42157086)

- M4 Macs are unable to virtualize macOS versions earlier than 13.4 Ventura, posing challenges for developers who need to test applications on older systems.
- The absence of a built-in container solution for macOS complicates continuous integration (CI) processes, which are essential for automated testing and deployment.
- Anka provides a partial solution by allowing macOS virtual machine (VM) images, but Apple's software license restricts this to two VMs, frustrating developers who require testing for backward compatibility.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Half-Life 2: 20th Anniversary Update" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Half-Life%202%3A%2020th%20Anniversary%20Update&subheading=Saturday%2C%20November%2016%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
