---
slug: '/2024/11/20'
---

# 2024-11-20

## [Let's Encrypt is 10 years old now](https://letsencrypt.org/2014/11/18/announcing-lets-encrypt/)

- Let’s Encrypt is a free certificate authority that simplifies obtaining and managing server certificates, addressing the challenges of cost and complexity.
- Supported by major organizations like Mozilla, Cisco, and the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), it aims to make Internet security accessible and open to all.
- Key principles of Let’s Encrypt include being free, automatic, secure, transparent, open, and cooperative, with opportunities for sponsorship or contribution to support the initiative.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42191228)

- Let's Encrypt, celebrating its 10th anniversary, has transformed internet security by offering free HTTPS certificates, democratizing secure connections.
- Despite its widespread adoption, some sectors, such as banking, require longer certificate validity, posing challenges for Let's Encrypt's use.
- The service has improved web security through its open protocol and automation, though it remains reliant on donations, underscoring its non-profit mission.

## [Epic Allows Internet Archive to Distribute Unreal and Unreal Tournament Forever](https://www.techdirt.com/2024/11/18/epic-allows-internet-archive-to-distribute-for-free-unreal-unreal-tournament-forever/)

- There is a suggestion that if HR 9495, a proposed bill, passes, it could potentially classify the Internet Archive as a terrorist organization without clear justification.
- The concern is raised by an anonymous source, indicating that this classification might not be a primary focus or priority of the bill.
- The implication of such a classification could have significant consequences for the Internet Archive, a digital library offering free access to a vast collection of digital content.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42190541)

- Epic Games has permitted the Internet Archive to distribute Unreal and Unreal Tournament indefinitely, sparking hopes for potential open-source releases similar to Quake.
- The Unreal Tournament community remains vibrant, with discussions about preserving and updating classic games, especially after Epic's decision to delist older titles from stores.
- Open-sourcing Unreal Engine 1 could eventually occur, but it requires significant cleanup, and this move could benefit learning, development, and the preservation of gaming history.

## [Tiny Glade 'built' its way to >600k sold in a month](https://newsletter.gamediscover.co/p/how-tiny-glade-built-its-way-to-600k)

- Tiny Glade, a relaxing building game by Pounce Light, sold over 600,000 copies within a month of its release on Steam, indicating significant commercial success.
- The game gained popularity through viral videos and participation in Steam's Next Fest, resulting in over 1.3 million wishlists, showcasing effective marketing strategies.
- Its success is attributed to its serene, goal-free sandbox experience and engaging procedural generation technology, appealing to fans of cozy and city-building games.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42190065)

- Tiny Glade sold over 600,000 copies in a month, attributed to its advanced custom lighting engine and the expertise of developers Tomasz Stachowiak and Anastasia Opara.
- The game, developed using Rust and Vulkan, became popular through effective marketing and community engagement, showcasing Rust's potential in game development.
- Despite some criticism for lacking depth, Tiny Glade offers a zen-like building experience, emphasizing the importance of community building before a game's launch.

## [AAA – Analytical Anti-Aliasing](https://blog.frost.kiwi/analytical-anti-aliasing/)

- Analytical Anti-Aliasing is a technique designed to remove jagged edges (jaggies) in rasterized images by pre-calculating the fade of shape borders, ensuring smooth edges without artifacts.- This method is efficient as it does not require additional buffers or hardware and is compatible with basic WebGL 1.0, making it accessible for various applications.- It is highlighted for its professional use in platforms like Unity and Valve Software, offering clarity and sharpness without the blurriness common in other anti-aliasing methods, such as SSAA (Super-Sample Anti-Aliasing), SMAA (Subpixel Morphological Anti-Aliasing), and DLAA (Deep Learning Anti-Aliasing).

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42191709)

- The article "AAA – Analytical Anti-Aliasing" delves into anti-aliasing techniques, emphasizing analytical methods and their application in graphics programming.
- It discusses the debate between linear and sRGB color spaces, limitations of WebGL, and challenges with overlapping shapes, providing a comprehensive exploration of these topics.
- The article is noted for its depth, interactive elements, and feedback on its presentation, highlighting the complexity of graphics settings in games.

## [What is the origin of the lake tank image that has become a meme? (2021)](https://history.stackexchange.com/questions/57033/what-is-the-origin-of-the-lake-tank-image-that-has-become-a-meme)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42193771)

- The "lake tank" meme features a submerged Panzer IV tank in the Meuse River, Belgium, from WWII, and is popular among military enthusiasts and gamers.
- It draws humor from the concept of receiving wisdom from unexpected sources, akin to the "Lady of the Lake" from Arthurian legend and the "senpai of the pool" meme.
- The meme's niche appeal is partly due to its connection to historical and gaming contexts, resonating with specific online communities.

## [Yi Peng 3 crossed both cables C-Lion 1 and BSC at times matching when they broke](https://bsky.app/profile/auonsson.bsky.social/post/3lbc5va7f722p)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42191394)

- A Chinese cargo ship, Yi Peng 3, allegedly severed undersea cables in the Baltic Sea, leading to suspicions of deliberate sabotage.
- The ship's movements, captained by a Russian national, coincided with the timing of the cable breakage, raising geopolitical concerns.
- This incident, following a similar one in October 2023, has led to increased scrutiny and ongoing investigations by the Danish navy.

## [When did estimates turn into deadlines?](https://domainanalysis.io/p/architecture-modernization-execution)

- In software modernization projects, estimates should be viewed as flexible guidelines rather than strict deadlines due to the unpredictable nature of such projects.
- Indu Alagarsamy likens architecture modernization to car repair, highlighting the need for adaptability and additional approvals when unforeseen issues arise.
- Effective leadership in these projects involves asking insightful questions, embracing experimentation, and utilizing suitable frameworks to navigate complexities and achieve success.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42187506)

- The post discusses the common issue of management treating project estimates as strict deadlines, often ignoring factors like changing specifications that can cause delays.
- This practice leads to inflated estimates as a defensive measure to avoid blame for missing so-called "deadlines," which can stifle innovation and honest work.
- The suggested solution is to cultivate a company culture that tolerates mistakes and focuses on continuous improvement rather than assigning blame, promoting a more innovative and productive environment.

## [SpaceX Super Heavy splashes down in the gulf, canceling chopsticks landing](https://twitter.com/spacex/status/1858995009384837380)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42188687)

- SpaceX's Super Heavy booster performed a soft splashdown in the Gulf of Mexico as a safety measure after automated health checks aborted the landing attempt on the "chopsticks" at the launch site.- The test flight successfully demonstrated engine relighting in space, marking a significant milestone for future orbital flights and SpaceX's goal of rapid reusability with Starship.- While SpaceX aims for frequent launches and missions like Mars colonization, the timeline for achieving these goals is uncertain due to potential technical and regulatory challenges.

## [Using Erlang hot code updates](https://underjord.io/how-i-use-erlang-hot-code-updates.html)

- Underjord, an Elixir consulting team, investigates Erlang's hot code updates, a distinctive feature allowing code changes without stopping the system.
- Although Elixir, based on Erlang, supports hot code updates, the standard mix release lacks the necessary files, prompting experts to recommend learning this skill.
- Hot code updates are particularly useful in development with Nerves for embedded devices, and more tooling in Elixir could enhance this process.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42187761)

- Erlang's hot code updates enable rapid deployment of fixes without disconnecting users, which is particularly advantageous for systems with long-lived connections, such as telephony.
- Although these updates can be complex and risky, potentially leading to non-replicable states, they are essential for maintaining continuous connections in real-time systems.
- While some advocate for simpler rolling deployments, hot code updates provide unique benefits in scenarios where uninterrupted service is critical, despite the challenges they present.

## [Apple Confirms Zero-Day Attacks Hitting macOS Systems](https://www.securityweek.com/apple-confirms-zero-day-attacks-hitting-intel-based-macs/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42189581)

- Apple has acknowledged zero-day attacks on macOS systems and advised users to update to the latest versions: iOS 18.1.1, macOS Sequoia 15.1.1, and iOS 17.7.2.
- The vulnerabilities involve malicious web content that could allow arbitrary code execution, highlighting the critical need for timely software updates.
- This incident is part of a recurring issue with iPhones, which have previously experienced web-exploitable security vulnerabilities, including web-based jailbreaks.

## [Understanding the BM25 full text search algorithm](https://emschwartz.me/understanding-the-bm25-full-text-search-algorithm/)

- BM25, or Best Match 25, is a widely used algorithm for full-text search, implemented in systems like Lucene/Elasticsearch and SQLite, and often paired with vector similarity search in hybrid search systems.
- It ranks documents based on relevance to a query using factors such as query terms, Inverse Document Frequency (IDF), term frequency, and document length normalization, following the Probability Ranking Principle.
- BM25 scores are context-specific, meaning they are comparable within the same document collection but not across different collections or over time, due to potential changes in the collection affecting scores.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42190650)

- The discussion focuses on the BM25 search algorithm and its integration with modern search technologies, such as hybrid systems like Typesense that combine BM25 with vector-based semantic search.- Participants debate the effectiveness of BM25 compared to newer learning models, with some advocating for its continued use and others suggesting more advanced statistical models.- The conversation also explores tools and methods like Reciprocal Rank Fusion (RRF) and the role of machine learning in enhancing search capabilities.

## [Blender 4.3](https://www.blender.org/download/releases/4-3/)

- Blender 4.3, released on November 19, 2024, brings significant updates, including EEVEE's Light and Shadow Linking, a new Metallic BSDF node, and Gabor Noise texture node.
- Enhancements include interactive multi-pass compositing, improved UV editing, and significant updates to Geometry Nodes and Grease Pencil for better performance and new tools.
- The release also features user interface improvements, Video Sequencer enhancements, Vulkan backend support, and remains free, supported by community donations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42190863)

- Blender 4.3, particularly with the Bonsai add-on, is recommended for home remodeling due to its detailed planning capabilities.
- The software is praised for its open-source model, strong community support, and development fund, contributing to its success and continuous improvement.
- Users highlight Blender's versatility in art and 3D printing, and suggest tutorials like the donut tutorial for beginners to overcome its learning curve.

## [Open Riak – open, modern Riak fork](https://github.com/OpenRiak)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42187766)

- OpenRiak is a modern fork of the Riak database, maintained by engineers from its major customers, focusing on enhancing stability in complex failure scenarios.
- Supported by the Erlang Ecosystem Foundation, OpenRiak remains a niche product but may attract users with specific non-functional requirements.
- The OpenRiak community is currently concentrating on Riak KV, with other forks being maintained by TI Tokyo, and plans to share future developments soon.

## [Webvm: Virtual Machine for the Web](https://github.com/leaningtech/webvm)

- WebVM is a Linux virtual machine that operates within a web browser using HTML5 and WebAssembly, utilizing the CheerpX virtualization engine to support x86 binaries.
- It offers a server-less, client-side environment with networking capabilities enabled through Tailscale, a VPN network, making it accessible without traditional server infrastructure.
- WebVM is open-source under the Apache License 2.0, with specific restrictions for organizational use, and can be deployed by forking the repository, enabling GitHub Pages, and customizing Dockerfiles.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42190395)

- WebVM, developed by Leaning Technologies, is a virtual machine designed for web use, with potential applications in virtualizing corporate apps and plans to support Docker containers.
- CheerpX, a proprietary component, is crucial for WebVM's offerings, providing support for Flash and Java, although WebVM itself is open-source.
- Despite its inability to run offline due to large data needs, WebVM supports Tailscale for networking, and there is user interest in the feasibility and performance of web-based virtual machines.

## [Bluesky is ushering in a pick-your-own algorithm era of social media](https://www.newscientist.com/article/2456782-bluesky-is-ushering-in-a-pick-your-own-algorithm-era-of-social-media/)

- Bluesky, a social network with over 20 million users, provides personalized control over social media algorithms, allowing users to choose their content.
- Unlike platforms like X (formerly Twitter), where algorithms dictate content, Bluesky offers a "marketplace of algorithms" for users to select feeds based on interests.
- This approach empowers users to shape their social media experience and could set a new industry standard, despite challenges in finding or creating the right feed.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42193549)

- Bluesky is launching customizable algorithms for social media, enabling users to select how they view content, either chronologically or through algorithmic sorting.
- The introduction of these features sparks a debate on whether algorithms improve or diminish user experience, with opinions divided between the need for user control and the advantages of curated content.
- Bluesky aims to balance user preferences and engagement by offering a chronological default feed while allowing for personalized content viewing options.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Let's Encrypt is 10 years old now" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Let's%20Encrypt%20is%2010%20years%20old%20now&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20November%2020%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
