---
slug: '/2024/09/02'
---

# 2024-09-02

## [1M Users](https://blog.spacehey.com/entry?id=1245177)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41422311)

- A high school student developed SpaceHey, a social media site reminiscent of MySpace, using basic technologies like vanilla PHP, HTML, and MySQL, and it has reached 1 million users.
- SpaceHey avoids modern social media issues such as ads and algorithms, offering simplicity and customization, which users find appealing.
- Discussions on Hacker News focus on the site's tech stack, user experience, and the broader implications for social media design, with debates on nostalgia and platform merits.

## [Extreme Pi Boot Optimization](https://kittenlabs.de/blog/2024/09/01/extreme-pi-boot-optimization/)

- The SolarCamPi project optimized the Raspberry Pi Zero 2 W boot time to 3.5 seconds to enhance energy efficiency in a solar-powered camera system.
- Key optimizations included disabling unnecessary hardware features, tweaking CPU settings, and using a custom stripped-down kernel.
- These changes resulted in a fivefold reduction in energy consumption, demonstrating significant improvements in both boot time and power efficiency.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41420597)

- Extreme Pi Boot Optimization involves bundling applications in an initramfs linked to the kernel, avoiding filesystem mounts, and potentially replacing BusyBox init with a simple bash script.
- Techniques discussed include disabling unnecessary kernel modules, using zstd compression, and testing with chroot to optimize boot times.
- The conversation highlights power consumption issues with Raspberry Pi hardware compared to alternatives like Google Coral and ESP32, emphasizing the need for efficient boot and power management strategies.

## [OrbStack: The fast, light, and easy way to run Docker containers and Linux](https://orbstack.dev/)

- OrbStack introduces a lightweight and efficient alternative to Docker Desktop, designed to minimize memory and CPU usage while providing robust capabilities for running Docker containers and Linux.
- Key features include fast startup times, low resource consumption, seamless integration with CLI and file sharing, and support for running x86 containers on Apple Silicon using Rosetta.
- The product has garnered positive feedback from developers for its performance improvements, particularly on M1/M2 Macs, making it a compelling option for those seeking a more efficient container management solution.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41421846)

- OrbStack is a new tool for running Docker containers and Linux on macOS, offering significant performance improvements over Docker Desktop.
- Users report that OrbStack reduces compile times dramatically and provides a WSL2-like experience on macOS, making it a compelling option for developers.
- Despite some issues with backup software and sparse disk images, the overall user feedback highlights OrbStack's polished UI, better integration, and faster performance compared to alternatives like Colima and Docker Desktop.

## [Defrag the Game](https://defrag-game.com)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41424371)

- A new game called "Defrag the Game" has been released, inspired by the concept of hard drive defragmentation but not intended to be a realistic simulation.
- Players have found the game confusing due to a lack of instructions and differences from actual disk defragmentation processes, leading to mixed feedback.
- The game is built using React, and while some users enjoy it, others have reported performance issues and unclear scoring mechanics.

## [Japan’s Temple-Builder Kongō Gumi, Has Survived Nearly 1,500 Years](https://www.openculture.com/2024/08/how-the-oldest-company-in-the-world-has-survived-nearly-1500-years.html)

- Kongō Gumi, the world's oldest continuously operating company, has been in business for nearly 1,500 years, originally founded in 578 to build Japan's first Buddhist temple, Shitennō-ji.
- The company has been managed by 40 generations of the Kongō family and has adapted to various challenges by diversifying its business, including coffin-making.
- In 2006, Kongō Gumi became a subsidiary of Takamatsu Construction Group but continues its traditional craftsmanship in temple construction using modern techniques.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41422126)

- Japan’s Kongō Gumi, a temple-building company, operated for nearly 1,500 years before being bought out and declaring bankruptcy in 2006 due to financial challenges.
- The company's decline was influenced by financial engineering, competition, and the unique structure of the Japanese economy.
- The discussion highlights the broader implications for long-lasting companies, family businesses, and the impact of cultural and economic factors on business longevity.

## [Tbsp – treesitter-based source processing language](https://git.peppe.rs/languages/tbsp/)

- The master branch of the tree-based source-processing language (tbsp) has seen several recent commits by Akshay, indicating active development.
- Notable updates include the addition of lists and index expressions, storing nodes as `usize` (an unsigned integer type in Rust), and the introduction of a `string::substr` function.
- Significant documentation and usability improvements were made, such as adding a usage roadmap to the README and renaming the project from "trawk" to "tbsp".

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41421650)

- Tbsp is a source processing language based on Treesitter, a tool for parsing and analyzing code.
- Users are discussing the need for a higher-level API for non-editor use cases and the absence of standard grammar structures.
- Tools like tree-sitter-graph, ast-grep, and related projects like Semgrep are suggested for better handling and visualization of grammars.

## [Telephone Line Rural Outside Plant](http://cityinfrastructure.com/single.php?d=RuralOutsidePlant&t=Rural%20Outside%20Plant)

- The rural outside plant involves the telephone company's cabling and equipment connecting homes to the Central Office, with notable differences such as smaller Central Offices and longer cable distances.
- Key components include Jumpered Wire Interfaces (JWI) for splitting high pair count cables, feeder cables, utility poles, and splice enclosures for distributing cables.
- Advanced equipment like T1 repeaters and HRE-458 HiGain Remote Therm-O-Nator enclosures are used to amplify digital signals and manage heat dissipation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41423303)

- The discussion highlights the transition from traditional copper-based telephone systems to modern fiber optics, emphasizing the benefits of fiber optics in terms of speed and reliability.
- Users share personal experiences and insights about various telecommunication technologies, including ISDN, DSL, and fiber optics, and their impact on connectivity and service quality.
- The conversation also touches on the challenges and peculiarities of rural and urban telecom infrastructure, such as the use of loading coils, the pressurization of cables, and the replacement of copper with fiber to prevent theft.

## [Upgrading a Toshiba NAS HDD Firmware on Linux](https://syscall.eu/blog/2024/08/28/toshiba_hdd_firmware/)

- A user successfully reverse-engineered a Toshiba HDD firmware updater to work on Linux, originally only available for Windows.
- The process involved extracting update files, understanding the flashing process, and using specific Linux commands to update the firmware.
- This achievement allows Linux users to update their Toshiba NAS HDD firmware without relying on Windows tools.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41423577)

- The discussion centers on the importance and risks of updating Toshiba NAS HDD firmware on Linux.
- Firmware updates can resolve specific issues but may also introduce new bugs, making it crucial to review changelogs and update only when necessary.
- The conversation highlights various experiences and opinions on firmware updates, emphasizing the need for caution and the potential consequences of both updating and not updating firmware.

## [Sleep on it: How the brain processes many experiences – even when 'offline'](https://news.yale.edu/2024/08/14/sleep-it-how-brain-processes-many-experiences-even-when-offline)

- Yale researchers discovered that the hippocampus replays and bundles waking experiences into memories during sleep, enhancing memory encoding and recall.
- The study, published in Nature Neuroscience, showed that the brain can compress up to 15 unrelated experiences into sub-second frames, improving network capacity and efficiency.
- Findings revealed a serial position effect, where the first and most recent experiences had the strongest representations, offering insights into memory formation and cognitive processes.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41425563)

- The brain processes experiences during sleep through hippocampal replay, aiding in memory consolidation and problem-solving.
- Cognitive fatigue triggers the brain to replay memories, suggesting that rest is crucial for learning and cognitive function.
- Techniques such as taking breaks, walking, or meditating are discussed as strategies to optimize learning and problem-solving.

## [DOjS – A DOS JavaScript Canvas with Sound](https://github.com/SuperIlu/DOjS)

- DOjS is a JavaScript programming environment designed for MS-DOS, FreeDOS, or DOS-based Windows, featuring an integrated editor, graphics, sound output, and input support for mouse, keyboard, and joystick.
- It offers compatibility with p5js, allowing scripts to be written and run from a DOS command prompt, and supports various multimedia and networking functionalities, including 2D/3D graphics, audio sampling, and IPX/TCP/IP networking.
- DOjS can run in DOSBox, real hardware, or virtual machines, requiring at least a 386 with 4MB RAM, though a Pentium class machine with 32MB RAM is recommended for optimal performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41425259)

- DOjS is a JavaScript framework that allows developers to create applications for DOS, including sound and graphics, using a canvas element.
- It requires at least an Intel 80386 with 4MB of RAM, but a Pentium class machine with 32MB RAM is recommended for better performance.
- Developers can package scripts and assets into a ZIP file and ship it with DOJS.EXE, enabling the creation of real applications like DOStodon, a Mastodon client for MS-DOS.

## [They don't make 'em like that any more: the 3.5mm headphone jack socket](https://kevinboone.me/headphonejack.html)

- The 3.5mm headphone jack offers better sound quality, compatibility with various devices, and the ability to charge the phone while listening, making it more reliable and convenient than wireless alternatives.
- Major manufacturers like Apple, Samsung, and Google have removed the headphone jack to push wireless audio technology, benefiting financially at the expense of consumer convenience.
- Consumers can still find phones with 3.5mm jacks from brands like Motorola, Asus, and Sony, or opt for older models from Apple, Samsung, and Google.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41425383)

- The removal of 3.5mm headphone jacks from most modern phones has made sharing audio and connecting to other devices more cumbersome.
- Bluetooth headphones, while popular, face issues such as limited battery life, connectivity problems, and inferior microphone quality compared to wired headphones.
- Many users still prefer phones with headphone jacks for their simplicity, reliability, and superior sound quality.

## ['Mindblowing' fake AMD Ryzen 7 7800X3D chip investigated – buyers beware](https://www.tomshardware.com/pc-components/cpus/mindblowing-fake-amd-ryzen-7-7800x3d-chip-investigated-buyers-beware)

- TechTuber Der8auer exposed a counterfeit AMD Ryzen 7 7800X3D CPU bought by a fan from OLX, a Romanian marketplace, highlighting the risks of purchasing tech from unverified sources.
- The fake CPU had several telltale signs, such as incorrect substrate color, lack of protective resin on capacitors, and a thinner PCB, with no actual silicon present upon delidding.
- Der8auer praised the quality of the counterfeit but warned buyers to be cautious, emphasizing the importance of buying from reputable sources to avoid such scams.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41420112)

- A counterfeit AMD Ryzen 7 7800X3D chip, essentially a non-functional piece of metal/plastic, is under investigation, raising buyer caution.
- The scam has sparked discussions about its potential use for warranty fraud and the unsustainable nature of such fraudulent business models.
- The prevalence of counterfeit products on platforms like Aliexpress and OLX, and the difficulties buyers face in disputing fraudulent transactions, are also highlighted.

## [Inductive or Deductive? Rethinking the Fundamental Reasoning Abilities of LLMs](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.00114)

- The study explores the distinction between deductive and inductive reasoning in Large Language Models (LLMs), a topic that has not been thoroughly examined before.
- Researchers introduced the SolverLearner framework to evaluate LLMs' inductive reasoning, finding that LLMs perform exceptionally well in inductive tasks but struggle with deductive reasoning, particularly in counterfactual scenarios.
- This research is significant as it highlights the strengths and weaknesses of LLMs in different types of reasoning, providing insights for future improvements in AI models.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41421591)

- The debate centers on whether Large Language Models (LLMs) like GPT are truly reasoning or merely regurgitating learned patterns from their training data.
- Some argue that LLMs are statistical text generators and not capable of genuine reasoning, while others discuss their ability to perform inductive or deductive reasoning.
- The conversation also highlights the limitations of LLMs and potential areas for improvement.

## [Parsing Awk Is Tricky](https://www.raygard.net/awkdoc/pages/awk_parsing_is_tricky.html)

- Parsing the awk programming language is complex, with its grammar and meaning posing challenges even for yacc experts.
- Various awk versions exhibit inconsistencies in parsing, leading to different results for the same code, highlighting ambiguities in the original awk grammar.
- Notable figures like Arnold Robbins (gawk maintainer) and Ben Hoyt (goawk) recognize these inconsistencies, attributing them to the deterministic nature of yacc parsing and conflict resolution.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41422283)

- The discussion highlights the importance of learning Awk for programmers and system administrators, emphasizing its simplicity and efficiency for text manipulation tasks.
- Comparisons are made between Awk and other scripting languages like Perl and Python, noting that Awk's concise syntax and built-in availability on Unix-like systems make it particularly useful for quick, one-liner operations.
- The conversation also touches on the challenges of parsing languages, with some users advocating for hand-rolled parsers over parser generators like yacc, citing ease of understanding and maintenance.

## [Dublin Core, what is it good for?](https://www.thisdaysportion.com/posts/dublin-core-what-is-it-good-for)

- Meta schemas like Open Graph, Schema.org, microformats, and Dublin Core embed structured information in web pages, making data easily findable by computers.
- Open Graph is widely adopted by social media, while Schema.org is preferred for Google search snippets; using multiple schemas may be necessary depending on the service.
- Meta schemas are used in read-it-later services, social media snippets, and academic services, with varying levels of support across different platforms.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41421325)

- Dublin Core (DC) was pivotal in the 90s for metadata and schema in museums, aiming for cross-site searchable assets, but a global portal never materialized.
- Today, there's a debate between using complex standards and simpler microformats, with good search engines and AI reducing the need for detailed metadata.
- DC remains relevant in projects like the Museums Data Service and TANC, and is used in platforms like Omeka-S and DSpace, despite its practical implementation being limited.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="1M Users" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=1M%20Users&subheading=Monday%2C%20September%202%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
