---
slug: '/2024/09/03'
---

# 2024-09-03

## [Is My Blue Your Blue?](https://ismy.blue/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41430258)

- The "Is My Blue Your Blue?" test explores how individuals classify the color cyan, revealing subjective differences in color perception.
- Factors such as monitor calibration, ambient lighting, and personal perception significantly influence the test's accuracy.
- The test, created by a visual neuroscience expert, aims to entertain and provoke thought about the interplay between perception and language.

## [Greppability is an underrated code metric](https://morizbuesing.com/blog/greppability-code-metric/)

- Greppability, the ease of searching for code elements, is an important but often overlooked metric in code maintenance.
- Key practices to enhance greppability include avoiding dynamic identifier construction, using consistent naming conventions across the stack, and preferring flat over nested structures.
- These practices help prevent frustration and errors when navigating and maintaining unfamiliar codebases.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41430772)

- Greppability, the ease of searching code using grep, is an underrated but valuable metric for code quality and consistency.
- "Super Grep," a tool designed for enhanced pattern matching across various naming conventions, is now available on PyPI, offering a "super case insensitive" mode.
- While IDEs (Integrated Development Environments) provide search functionalities, grep remains crucial, especially in large or unfamiliar codebases, ensuring ease of search and consistency across different languages.

## [The Art of Finishing](https://www.bytedrum.com/posts/art-of-finishing/)

- The author describes the "Hydra Project Effect," where solving one challenge in a project leads to new challenges, creating a cycle of unfinished work.
- To break this cycle, the author suggests strategies such as defining "done" from the start, embracing Minimum Viable Product (MVP), time-boxing, and celebrating completions.
- The focus is on building habits that increase the likelihood of completing projects, thus fostering real skill growth and reducing the mental weight of unfinished tasks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41428705)

- Reframe unfinished projects as opportunities for creative exploration and learning, rather than sources of pressure.
- Embrace the process of tinkering and playing, which are crucial for personal and professional growth.
- Set realistic goals and deadlines for some projects, while allowing others to remain open-ended to prioritize tasks effectively.

## [Web scraping with GPT-4o: powerful but expensive](https://blancas.io/blog/ai-web-scraper/)

- The author explored using GPT-4o's new structured outputs feature to develop an AI-assisted web scraper, with promising initial results using Pydantic models.
- Challenges included parsing complex tables and managing costs, with a two-day experiment costing $24, leading to efforts to clean up HTML strings to improve performance.
- A demo was created using Streamlit, and the source code was shared on GitHub, with future plans to capture browser events and improve user experience.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41428274)

- Web scraping with GPT-4o is effective but costly, prompting users to convert HTML to simpler formats like markdown to reduce expenses.
- Tools such as Extractus, dom-to-semantic-markdown, Apify, and Firecrawl assist in this conversion, and user-assisted flows for generating XPaths are being explored.
- Alternatives like browserbase.com provide solutions for running Chrome extensions on headless browsers, and using smaller, fine-tuned models or generating scraping code can enhance efficiency and lower costs.

## [IPMI](https://computer.rip/2024-08-31-ipmi.html)

- The author is transitioning their enterprise cloud to New Mexico, including purchasing a new server to replace an outdated one.
- Modern servers, such as Dell PowerEdge and HP ProLiant, are essentially powerful computers with advanced management features like IPMI for remote access and management.
- Security concerns with IPMI necessitate isolating it from untrusted networks, highlighting the importance of understanding the specific capabilities and limitations of server management systems.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41431244)

- Intel is currently trailing AMD in both CPU and GPU performance, with the exception of the N100 series CPUs.
- AMD CPUs are favored for their superior performance and cost-efficiency, while Intel CPUs are often used for direct replacements in existing setups.
- Redfish is emerging as a more secure and user-friendly alternative to IPMI for server management.

## [Diffusion Is Spectral Autoregression](https://sander.ai/2024/09/02/spectral-autoregression.html)

- Diffusion models and autoregressive models share similarities, with diffusion models performing approximate autoregression in the frequency domain.
- Diffusion models generate images from coarse to fine details, analyzed using spectral analysis, showing that natural image spectra follow a power law.
- The corruption process in diffusion models filters out high-frequency information, making the generative process similar to autoregression in frequency space, suggesting potential future integration of both paradigms for multimodal data.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41431293)

- The post discusses the connection between diffusion models and spectral autoregression, highlighting how diffusion can be viewed through the lens of autoregressive modeling.
- It explores the frequency components of speech and how different frequencies are produced and perceived, suggesting potential applications in audio generation and modeling.
- The conversation includes references to related research papers and ideas, such as using pink noise for diffusion models and the implications of phase in audio data.

## [Microsoft's 'Recall' feature can't be uninstalled after all](https://mashable.com/article/microsoft-recall-feature-cant-be-uninstalled)

- Windows 11 users cannot uninstall Microsoft's "Recall" feature, which takes constant screenshots of user behavior for easy retrieval of previous work.
- A recent update mistakenly allowed Recall to be uninstalled, but Microsoft clarified this was a bug and is investigating privacy concerns.
- Due to public backlash and cybersecurity concerns, Microsoft made Recall opt-in and delayed its release to October for Windows Insiders testers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41430757)

- Microsoft's 'Recall' feature, which cannot be uninstalled, has sparked user criticism and frustration over perceived complacency and dominance in the OS market.
- Concerns include privacy, telemetry, and the future of Windows, especially as younger generations prefer Chromebooks and iPhones.
- The debate centers on whether Microsoft's data-driven approach and AI integration will sustain its dominance or push users towards alternatives like Linux.

## [Steve Ballmer's incorrect binary search interview question](https://blog.jgc.org/2024/09/steve-ballmers-binary-search-interview.html)

- John Graham-Cumming's blog analyzes Steve Ballmer's binary search interview question, which involves guessing a number between 1 and 100 with varying payouts.
- Contrary to Ballmer's claim that the game is unfavorable, the blog demonstrates that using a binary search strategy results in a positive expected value of $0.20 if numbers are chosen randomly.
- The blog includes code to support this analysis and discusses potential misunderstandings in Ballmer's reasoning, with comments suggesting alternative strategies and interpretations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41434637)

- Steve Ballmer's binary search interview question has ignited debate over its effectiveness in evaluating technical skills.
- An interviewee with payments experience was rejected for lacking real-time payments expertise, despite managing conflict well during the process.
- Commenters criticized the interview tactics as indicative of a toxic culture and emphasized the importance of admitting knowledge gaps.

## [Playdate Game Zero Zero: Perfect Stop](https://play.date/games/zero-zero/)

- "Zero Zero: Perfect Stop" is a train driving game where players control the train's throttle and brakes using a crank, aiming for precise stops at each station.
- The game features multiple routes, including 1-stop, 3-stop, 5-stop, and Express routes, with global leaderboards and a Free Mode for casual play.
- The game supports both English and Japanese, and includes a tutorial for new players, making it accessible to a wide audience.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41429232)

- "Zero Zero: Perfect Stop" is a new game for the Playdate console, developed by Hunter Bridges, which has seen a recent increase in sales and interest.
- The game uses a video-based approach with pre-rendered video to simulate a train-driving experience, inspired by the Fuji Kyuukou line in Yamanashi, Japan.
- Discussions around the game include its technical implementation, privacy concerns regarding scoreboards, and comparisons to other train simulators and FMV (Full Motion Video) games.

## [Synchronizing pong to music with constrained optimization](https://victortao.substack.com/p/song-pong)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41434679)

- A new project synchronizes the classic game Pong to music using constrained optimization, creating a visually engaging experience.
- Unlike previous efforts that manually sync to the song's beats per minute (BPM), this approach uses advanced techniques for a more dynamic visualization.
- The project has sparked interest and discussions about potential applications, including reinforcement learning and rhythm-based gameplay similar to "Crypt of the NecroDancer" and "Cadence of Hyrule."

## [Economist Eugene Fama: 'Efficient markets is a hypothesis. It's not reality](https://www.ft.com/content/ec06fe06-6150-4f39-8175-37b9b61a5520)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41432086)

- Economist Eugene Fama emphasizes that the Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH) is a theoretical model, not a reflection of reality.
- The article discusses the limitations and controversies surrounding EMH, highlighting that markets are not perfectly efficient but the hypothesis remains a useful framework.
- Fama's interview underscores that while markets adjust quickly to information, they are influenced by various factors, including non-tangible values and cognitive biases, which prevent perfect efficiency.

## [Iranian writer is sentenced to 12 years after tweeting a dot at supreme leader](https://www.npr.org/2024/09/02/g-s1-20579/iran-sentenced-12-years-tweet-supreme-leader)

- Iranian writer Hossein Shanbehzadeh has been sentenced to 12 years in prison for replying with a single dot to a tweet by Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
- Shanbehzadeh was charged with pro-Israel propaganda, insulting Islamic sanctities, spreading lies online, and anti-regime propaganda, following his arrest in June 2024.
- This case highlights a broader crackdown on dissent in Iran, with Shanbehzadeh's lawyer planning to appeal the verdict.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41429245)

- An Iranian writer received a 12-year prison sentence for charges including pro-Israel propaganda, insulting Islamic sanctities, spreading lies online, and anti-regime propaganda.
- The writer's lawyer intends to appeal, particularly against the pro-Israel accusation, amid claims of contact with Israeli intelligence and an arrest attempt while leaving Iran.
- The article highlights media bias and the misleading nature of headlines, which suggested the sentence was solely for tweeting a dot at the supreme leader.

## [Why bother with argv[0]?](https://www.wietzebeukema.nl/blog/why-bother-with-argv0)

- The post highlights the security risks associated with using argv[0] to represent a process's name in command lines across operating systems.
- Historically intended to allow programs to behave differently based on invocation, argv[0] is now considered outdated and insecure, with potential to bypass security defenses and corrupt telemetry.
- Recommendations include avoiding reliance on argv[0], improving detection of its manipulation in defensive software, and excluding it from command-line reports to mitigate security issues.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41434315)

- The article discusses the use of `argv[0]` in programming, particularly its role in identifying how a program was called, which is crucial for tools like Busybox.
- There is a debate on whether `argv[0]` should be set by the operating system (OS) rather than the programmer, with arguments about security and efficiency.
- The discussion highlights the trade-offs between using `argv[0]`, symlinks, and shebangs, especially in resource-constrained environments like embedded systems.

## [Wizardry Co-Creator Andrew Greenberg Has Passed Away](https://www.timeextension.com/news/2024/09/wizardry-co-creator-andrew-greenberg-has-passed-away)

- Andrew Greenberg, co-creator of the influential RPG Wizardry, has passed away, leaving a significant legacy in the gaming industry.
- Wizardry, released in 1981, was one of the first RPGs for personal computers and had a notable impact, particularly in Japan; it was recently remastered by Digital Eclipse.
- Greenberg's career also included work as a patent attorney and in renewable energy, and he is fondly remembered by the gaming community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41431177)

- Andrew Greenberg, co-creator of the influential game Wizardry, has passed away, leaving a significant legacy in the game development industry.
- Discussions highlight the impact of Wizardry on the RPG genre, influencing major titles like Final Fantasy and Dragon Quest.
- Users shared nostalgic memories of working with early gaming technology, such as Windows NT 4 and Voodoo 3DFX graphics cards, during the 1990s at Sir Tech Canada.

## [Open Mathematics Depository](https://openmathdep.tuxfamily.org/)

- The Open Mathematics Depository aims to provide open access to mathematical texts in PDF format that are either in the public domain or under an open license.
- This project serves as an intermediary between large repositories like archive.org and subscription services, ensuring free access to valuable mathematical resources.
- Contributions of public domain or open license mathematics PDFs are welcomed, with a current focus on English texts until curators for other languages are available.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41429515)

- The Open Mathematics Depository on TuxFamily.org is being highlighted for its collection of Soviet-era mathematics books, which are known for their concise and dense content.
- Users are discussing easier access to these resources through platforms like Archive.org and recommending their use alongside standard textbooks.
- There is a call for teachers to recommend these books, noting that many are republished on Amazon India and by Dover Publications, making them more accessible and affordable.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Is My Blue Your Blue?" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Is%20My%20Blue%20Your%20Blue%3F&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20September%203%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
