---
slug: '/2024/09/07'
---

# 2024-09-07

## [Keyhole – Forge own Windows Store licenses](https://massgrave.dev/blog/keyhole)

- Researchers discovered a method called "Keyhole" to bypass Windows licensing checks, allowing easy licensing of any Microsoft Store app or modern Windows edition.
- The exploit involves manipulating the Client Licensing Platform (CLiP) components, particularly clipup.exe, to create and install unauthorized licenses.
- Cisco TALOS reported the vulnerability (CVE-2024-38184) as a "privilege escalation," leading to a patch that prevents the exploit by fixing the processing of license blocks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41472643)

- A new exploit called "Keyhole" allows users to forge their own Windows Store licenses, potentially enabling free downloads of Xbox games from the Microsoft Store.
- This exploit is particularly notable because it bypasses Microsoft's digital rights management (DRM) system, similar to previous hacks on other gaming consoles like the PS Vita.
- The exploit's effectiveness is limited for users who have enabled auto-updates on their Xbox, as the latest system software includes a higher kernel version that patches the vulnerability.

## [Malaysia started mandating ISPs to redirect DNS queries to local servers](https://thesun.my/local-news/mcmc-addresses-misinformation-on-dns-redirection-internet-access-restrictions-BN12972452)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41471510)

- Malaysia has required ISPs to redirect DNS queries to local servers, citing protection against harmful online content.
- Critics suggest this move could be a pretext for censorship, raising concerns about internet freedom and access to diverse information.
- Users are exploring workarounds such as VPNs and alternative DNS methods to bypass these restrictions.

## [Hardware Acceleration of LLMs: A comprehensive survey and comparison](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.03384)

- The paper surveys research on accelerating Large Language Models (LLMs) using various hardware accelerators, such as FPGA, ASIC, In-Memory, and GPU.
- It compares frameworks based on speedup, energy efficiency, performance (GOPs), and energy efficiency (GOPs/W), addressing the challenge of different process technologies.
- The study extrapolates performance and energy efficiency results to the same technology for fair comparison, implementing parts of LLMs on various FPGA chips.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41470074)

- The paper highlights the increasing need for hardware acceleration in large language models (LLMs) due to the memory bandwidth bottleneck over CPU speed.
- Technologies like Compute-in-memory (CIM) and processing-in-memory (PIM) are discussed for their ability to perform operations directly on data in memory, enhancing latency and power consumption.
- The paper compares ASIC (Application-Specific Integrated Circuit) and FPGA (Field-Programmable Gate Array) hardware, using a polynomial to extrapolate performance to a common 16nm technology, but does not do so for CIM/PIM due to their performance not being solely based on process technology.

## [QtCS2024: Compile once, Run everywhere](https://wiki.qt.io/QtCS2024_Compile_once._Run_everywhere)

- Cosmopolitan Libc enables "compile once, run everywhere" for C++ applications by detecting the host machine at runtime, simplifying cross-platform deployment.
- Cristian Adam demonstrated running Qt Creator with Cosmopolitan Libc on macOS and Linux, though faced challenges on Windows, particularly with native platform integration and WebSockets support.
- The Cosmopolitan Qt Creator binary is approximately 230 megabytes, and Adam encourages further contributions and issue reporting to enhance support.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41470571)

- QtCS2024 introduces the concept of "Compile once, Run everywhere," leveraging Cosmopolitan Libc to enable cross-platform compatibility for Qt applications.
- The initiative aims to simplify software distribution by creating binaries that can run on multiple platforms without needing separate builds for each.
- This approach, while innovative, raises concerns about potential security risks and the practicality of porting existing applications to this new system.

## [Ford patents in-car system that eavesdrops so it can play you ads](https://www.motortrend.com/news/ford-in-vehicle-advertising-patent/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41471417)

- Ford has patented an in-car system designed to listen to conversations and play targeted ads, raising concerns about privacy and intrusiveness.
- Critics argue that this trend of ad-based monetization could spread to other devices, making it increasingly difficult for consumers to avoid ads.
- There are also safety concerns, as unexpected audio or visual ads could distract drivers, potentially compromising road safety.

## [Asynchronous IO: the next billion-dollar mistake?](https://yorickpeterse.com/articles/asynchronous-io-the-next-billion-dollar-mistake/)

- Asynchronous IO (non-blocking IO) allows applications to handle many IO operations without blocking the calling OS thread or creating multiple threads, addressing the C10K problem of handling increasing internet traffic.
- Despite its benefits, asynchronous IO introduces complexity, especially for operations like file IO on Linux, which always blocks, requiring alternative strategies like io_uring.
- The author questions if the focus on asynchronous IO over the past 20 years was a mistake, suggesting that improving OS thread efficiency might have been a better approach, potentially eliminating the need for complex asynchronous IO techniques.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41471707)

- The discussion centers on the efficiency and practicality of asynchronous I/O (Input/Output) versus improving OS (Operating System) thread performance.
- Asynchronous I/O is argued to be more efficient because it minimizes the overhead associated with managing multiple threads, which each require their own stack and can lead to cache inefficiencies.
- The debate highlights that while asynchronous I/O is naturally suited for networking and other inherently asynchronous operations, improving OS thread performance could theoretically handle high concurrency but faces significant technical challenges.

## ['Right to Repair for Your Body': The Rise of DIY, Pirated Medicine](https://fourthievesvinegar.org/)

- The Four Thieves Vinegar Collective is an anarchist group dedicated to making medicines and medical technologies accessible through DIY solutions.
- Their notable projects include the MicroLab Suite (a DIY automated chemical reactor), the Emergency Room Suite (featuring lifesaving technologies like the EpiPencil autoinjector), and Tooth Seal (a DIY cavity-repair solution).
- The collective has gained media attention and provides opportunities for public involvement via their contact page.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41474080)

- The rise of DIY and pirated medicine, highlighted on fourthievesvinegar.org, has ignited a debate about self-ownership in healthcare versus safety and regulation concerns.
- The movement is compared to the "Right to Repair" but faces criticism for potentially minimizing safety issues, with discussions including personal stories and regulatory challenges.
- Opinions are divided: some view it as empowering, while others believe it emphasizes the need for systemic healthcare reform.

## [What's new in C++26 (part 1)](https://mariusbancila.ro/blog/2024/09/06/whats-new-in-c26-part-1/)

- C++26 introduces the ability to specify a reason for deleting a function, providing more informative compiler error messages.
- The new placeholder variable feature allows the use of a single underscore (\_) to define unnamed variables, implicitly adding the [[maybe_unused]] attribute.
- Structured binding declarations can now be used as conditions in if, while, or for statements, simplifying code that handles multiple return values.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41471488)

- C++26 introduces new features such as specifying reasons for deleting functions and placeholder variables without names.
- There is a growing concern among developers that C++ is becoming overly complex, making maintenance and understanding more difficult.
- Despite the complexity, new features are added to address long-standing issues, though some developers argue that the language is becoming excessively feature-rich, complicating compilers and development.

## [The PERQ Computer](https://graydon2.dreamwidth.org/313862.html)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41472855)

- The PERQ Computer article explores its historical significance and unique features, such as using AMD bitslice chips and microcode to support various operating systems.
- Commenters provide personal anecdotes and discuss the PERQ's position between the Alto and Lisa, as well as its influence on subsequent systems.
- The discussion includes debates on the PERQ's CPU and microcode, references to P-code, and the broader context of computing advancements and tech innovation's geographical spread.

## [Richard Feynman and the Connection Machine (1989)](https://longnow.org/essays/richard-feynman-and-connection-machine/)

- The essay recounts Danny Hillis's experience working with Richard Feynman on the development of the Connection Machine, a parallel computer with a million processors.
- Feynman initially dismissed the idea as "dopey" but became deeply involved, contributing significantly to the project's technical and organizational aspects.
- Feynman's unique approach, including his analysis of the router and his work on algorithms, showcased his ability to simplify complex problems and make groundbreaking contributions to computer science.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41472135)

- Richard Feynman critiqued the technical presentations for the Connection Machine CM-1, advocating for simpler and more accessible language.
- The Connection Machine CM-1, notable for its design, appeared in "Jurassic Park" and was influenced by the WOPR from "War Games."
- Discussions about Feynman and the Connection Machine are popular on Hacker News, highlighting the importance of clear communication in technical fields.

## [Browsing Hacker News in the Terminal](https://hnterm.ggerganov.com/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41471157)

- A new terminal-based application, hnterm, allows users to browse Hacker News directly from the terminal, providing a minimalist and efficient interface.
- The project, created by Georgi Gerganov, is gaining attention for its simplicity and potential to replace more bloated web browsers for specific tasks.
- Users can install hnterm using package managers like Snap or Homebrew, making it accessible for various operating systems.

## [Conservative GC can be faster than precise GC](https://wingolog.org/archives/2024/09/07/conservative-gc-can-be-faster-than-precise-gc)

- The debate between precise and conservative garbage collection (GC) centers on efficiency and performance, with conservative GC sometimes resulting in faster systems despite common beliefs favoring precise GC.
- Conservative GC can avoid run-time overhead, reduce stack frame sizes, and eliminate the need for stack maps, potentially leading to better compiler performance and smaller binaries.
- Anecdotal evidence, such as the Conservative Immix paper and practices by Apple’s JavaScriptCore and V8, suggests that conservative stack scanning can outperform precise scanning in certain scenarios.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41473061)

- Conservative garbage collection (GC) can be faster than precise GC, but it may cause memory leaks by misinterpreting data as pointers.
- Go's switch from conservative to precise GC led to more allocations and potential performance hits, but optimizations have minimized latency and pauses.
- Amortized GC, which frees memory incrementally, might address issues of frequent allocations and deallocations that reduce throughput in precise GC.

## [Dance Choreography Notation (2017)](https://adafrobinson.wordpress.com/2017/02/22/keeping-score/)

- The post discusses the evolution and significance of various dance notation systems, highlighting their role in documenting complex dance performances.
- Four major dance notation systems are detailed: Beauchamp-Feuillet, Stepanov, Labanotation, and Benesh, each with unique historical and functional attributes.
- The author plans to explore dance notation computer systems and visit notable archives, indicating future insights into the preservation and study of dance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41470688)

- Dance choreography notation systems, such as Labanotation, are historically significant but have become less relevant with the advent of video.
- These notations are primarily used by historians or for coaching copyrighted works from deceased choreographers, and are not widely adopted in the dance community.
- There is a discussion on how notation might help choreographers create copyrightable artifacts, with comparisons to other notation systems like SignWriting and gymnastics notation.

## [PHP is the new JavaScript?](https://www.mux.com/blog/php-is-the-new-javascript)

- Guillermo Rauch, a notable figure in the tech community, expressed that React is a revolutionary idea with long-term potential for exploration and application.
- This statement highlights the enduring relevance and impact of React, a popular JavaScript library for building user interfaces, in the tech industry.
- The tweet underscores the anticipation of continuous innovation and development within the React ecosystem over the coming years.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41469040)

- The article compares PHP frameworks Symfony and Laravel, highlighting Symfony's flexibility and Laravel's ease of use.
- Laravel's recent $57 million investment is noted, sparking debates on its complexity, performance, and robust ecosystem.
- The discussion reflects diverse preferences in web development, mentioning other frameworks and languages.

## [WebP: The WebPage Compression Format](https://purplesyringa.moe/blog/webp-the-webpage-compression-format/)

- The author focuses on accessibility and functionality without JavaScript, emphasizing the importance of page load time and HTML minification.
- The main challenge is reducing traffic and latency through compression, with Brotli being more efficient but slower than gzip; however, GitHub Pages does not support Brotli.
- A potential solution involves using brotli-dec-wasm (200 KB) or tiny-brotli-dec-wasm (71 KiB) for client-side decompression, balancing between gzip (92 KiB) and Brotli (37 + 71 KiB).

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41475124)

- The discussion revolves around using WebP as a web page compression format, comparing its efficiency to other methods like GZIP and Brotli.
- Some users report negligible performance improvements with WebP, while others suggest alternative approaches like self-extracting HTML/WebP polyglot files to reduce latency.
- The conversation includes various opinions on the practicality and impact of WebP, with some users highlighting issues like increased latency and minimal size savings.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Keyhole – Forge own Windows Store licenses" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Keyhole%20%E2%80%93%20Forge%20own%20Windows%20Store%20licenses&subheading=Saturday%2C%20September%207%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
