---
slug: '/2024/09/09'
---

# 2024-09-09

## [QUIC is not quick enough over fast internet](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3589334.3645323)

- A recent study reveals that QUIC, a protocol designed to improve internet performance, shows up to a 45.2% data rate reduction compared to traditional TCP+TLS+HTTP/2 over high-speed networks.
- The performance gap is attributed to high receiver-side processing overhead, particularly due to excessive data packets and QUIC's user-space acknowledgments (ACKs).
- The findings are significant for applications like file transfers, video streaming, and web browsing, with recommendations provided to mitigate these issues.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41484991)

- QUIC faces performance issues on fast internet due to inefficient syscall interfaces, high syscall costs from spectre mitigation, small default UDP buffers, and complex UDP stack optimizations.
- GSO (Generic Segmentation Offload) can enhance performance but is not optimal for large-scale servers, indicating a need for better APIs to replace BSD sockets/POSIX.
- Discussions emphasize the complexity of integrating io_uring and the potential benefits of high-level APIs built on it, highlighting the balance between user-space flexibility and kernel-level efficiency.

## [Reclaim the Stack](https://reclaim-the-stack.com)

- Mynewsdesk.com developed a Kubernetes-based platform to replace Heroku, resulting in a 90% cost reduction and a 30% performance improvement for their SaaS product.
- The new platform enhanced the developer experience with faster deployment times and improved tooling.
- The stack has been open-sourced, enabling others to replicate their success quickly by following the provided documentation and joining their Discord server.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41483675)

- Reclaim the Stack reports a 90% cost reduction and 30% performance boost by transitioning from Heroku to Kubernetes.
- Users argue that these savings come with increased complexity, requiring more maintenance, monitoring, and specialized expertise in managing Kubernetes and associated systems.
- Critics suggest considering simpler VM setups, managed services, or other PaaS providers like Render or Fly.io, highlighting the trade-offs between cost, complexity, and infrastructure management knowledge.

## [FBI recommends using an ad blocker (2022)](https://www.ic3.gov/Media/Y2022/PSA221221)

- The FBI has issued a warning about cyber criminals using search engine ads to impersonate brands, leading users to malicious sites that host ransomware and steal sensitive information.
- Cyber criminals purchase ads that mimic legitimate businesses, which appear at the top of search results, tricking users into visiting fake websites and downloading malware.
- Precautions include verifying URLs, using ad-blockers, and businesses educating users about spoofed websites and correct URLs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41483581)

- The FBI has recommended using ad blockers to enhance online security and improve user experience by preventing intrusive and potentially malicious ads.
- Despite the benefits, some argue that ad blockers undermine the revenue model of many websites, which rely on ad income.
- The consensus among tech-savvy users is that the advantages of using ad blockers outweigh the potential drawbacks.

## [Sleep duration, chronotype, health and lifestyle factors affect cognition [pdf]](https://bmjpublichealth.bmj.com/content/bmjph/2/1/e001000.full.pdf)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41483434)

- A study indicates that normal sleep duration (7-9 hours) is linked to better cognitive performance, while extended sleep can have negative effects.
- Alcohol consumption has a complex relationship with cognition; abstainers tend to score lower on cognitive tests compared to moderate drinkers.
- The discussion also explores how age, health, and personal experiences influence alcohol metabolism and cognitive function.

## [Charging lithium-ion batteries at high currents first increases lifespan by 50%](https://www.eurekalert.org/news-releases/1056171)

- Researchers at the SLAC-Stanford Battery Center found that charging lithium-ion batteries at high currents before they leave the factory is 30 times faster and increases their lifespans by 50%.
- The study, published in Joule, highlights that the formation charge, the first charge a battery receives, is crucial for its performance and longevity.
- Using scientific machine learning, the research identified temperature and current as key factors, with significant implications for enhancing battery manufacturing efficiency and performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41483654)

- Charging lithium-ion batteries at high currents initially may increase their lifespan by 50%, though this claim is debated among industry experts.
- Concerns include the impact on battery impedance, capacity, and the effectiveness of thermal management in different electric vehicle brands.
- The discussion also explores the potential benefits of higher voltage architectures and the trade-offs between battery longevity and charging speed.

## [Confirmed: Reflection 70B's official API is a wrapper for Sonnet 3.5](https://old.reddit.com/r/LocalLLaMA/s/4Ly2yj78aM)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41484981)

- Reflection 70B's official API is merely a wrapper for the existing Sonnet 3.5 model, not a new AI model.
- The release was disorganized, with mislabeled weights, inconsistent evaluations, and eventual use of Sonnet 3.5 and later GPT-4o.
- The involvement of Sahil Chaudhary and Matt Shumer, with Shumer promoting the model despite its issues, has caused confusion and wasted time in the AI community.

## [The Fennel Programming Language](https://fennel-lang.org/)

- Fennel is a programming language that merges Lua's simplicity and speed with Lisp's syntax and macro system, offering full Lua compatibility and zero overhead.
- It is versatile, suitable for applications such as video games, web servers, and microcontrollers, and supports compile-time macros.
- Comprehensive documentation and community resources are available, including setup guides, tutorials, and a code of conduct, with versions ranging from v0.1.0 to v1.5.1.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41483216)

- The Fennel Programming Language is recognized for its technical advancements and improvements over Lua, particularly for large projects.
- Fennel introduces features like pattern matching and a powerful macro system, enhancing flexibility and ease of use, especially in legacy codebases.
- Its integration with Lua's module loader allows seamless mixing of tables and functions, and its Lisp syntax with a minimal learning curve makes it popular among developers.

## [ESPN AI-generated recap of retiring player's final match fails to mention them](https://awfulannouncing.com/espn/alex-morgan-ai-generated-recap-mention.html)

- ESPN's AI-generated recap of Alex Morgan’s final professional match initially failed to mention her, focusing on teammate Kennedy Wesley instead.
- The omission underscores the limitations of AI in capturing the full emotional and historical context of significant events.
- ESPN later updated the recap to include Morgan and published a separate, less prominent article about her final game.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41489167)

- ESPN's AI-generated recap of a retiring player's final match failed to mention the player, leading to criticism and highlighting flaws in AI-generated content.
- This incident emphasizes that while AI can produce content rapidly, it often misses the context and emotional depth that human writers provide.
- The situation underscores the necessity for human oversight to maintain quality and accuracy in AI-generated articles.

## [Why GitHub Won](https://blog.gitbutler.com/why-github-actually-won/)

- GitHub's success is attributed to its timely launch during the rise of distributed version control tools and its focus on enhancing the developer experience over commercial interests.
- GitHub's user-centric approach, emphasis on pull requests, and aesthetic appeal distinguished it from competitors like Google Code and BitBucket.
- The adoption of Git by the Linux community and early support from the Ruby community were crucial in popularizing GitHub.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41490161)

- Google Code was created to prevent SourceForge from monopolizing the market, not to dominate it.
- After achieving its goal of fostering competition, Google Code was shut down, paving the way for platforms like GitHub to flourish.
- The discussion underscores concerns about the longevity of Google's products and the importance of timing and user experience in GitHub's success.

## [ATProto for distributed system engineers](https://atproto.com/articles/atproto-for-distsys-engineers)

- AT Protocol, developed by Bluesky, is designed for open social networking, focusing on decentralized backend engineering.
- Traditional web backends face scalability issues with SQL databases, leading to the adoption of NoSQL clusters and stream processing architectures.
- AT Protocol decentralizes high-scale backends by using public APIs for internal services and establishing a shared data model called the "user data repository," which contains cryptographically signed JSON documents.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41484337)

- ATProto is a comprehensive, bottom-up specification for decentralized systems, contrasting with ActivityPub, which leaves many aspects to implementation.
- ATProto uses its own data model instead of JSON-LD, which can be a deterrent for some developers.
- A new guide on creating minimal apps with ATProto has been released, highlighting its growing ecosystem and practical applications.

## [Linux's Bedtime Routine](https://tookmund.com/2024/09/hibernation-preparation)

- The article explains the hibernation process in Linux, focusing on version 6.9.9, from initiating hibernation to synchronizing filesystems to disk.
- Key entry points for controlling sleep and hibernation modes are `/sys/power/state` and `/sys/power/disk`, with specific values written to these files to initiate sleep states.
- The hibernation process involves several steps, including kernel configuration, availability checks, compression checks, lock acquisition, console preparation, power management notifications, and filesystem synchronization.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41483789)

- Linux power management issues were explored, particularly focusing on hibernation and suspend mechanisms, which follow different code paths.
- A crash was identified due to insufficient free system RAM to hold all VRAM, leading to failed memory allocation during sleep or resume, causing undefined system states.
- The discussion highlights the complexities and potential issues with Linux's power management, including the handling of VRAM and the role of systemd in managing these processes.

## [Htmx, Raku and Pico CSS](https://rakujourney.wordpress.com/2024/09/08/htmx-raku-and-pico-css/)

- This post is part of a series focused on reducing cognitive load in web projects by using simpler web development practices, specifically HTMX, Raku, and Cro for backend HTML assembly and RESTful APIs, eliminating the need for JavaScript in dynamic content.
- HTMX is versatile for most projects but not suitable for complex web apps; Pico CSS is recommended for styling due to its emphasis on semantic HTML, which simplifies the development process.
- The post includes code examples using Pico CSS to rebuild HTMX examples for Raku/Cro, with the final code available on GitHub, and highlights Pico CSS's built-in dark mode.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41482679)

- HTMX is highlighted for its ability to simplify web applications by keeping state management server-side, reducing the need for extensive client-side JavaScript (JS).
- Users discuss the trade-offs between HTMX and modern frontend frameworks like React, noting that HTMX can be more efficient for simpler business applications but may lack some UI functionalities.
- The conversation includes comparisons with other technologies like Next.js, Blazor, and Phoenix LiveView, emphasizing that HTMX offers a different approach that can be beneficial for specific use cases, particularly for fullstack developers who prefer backend logic.

## [Jd – JSON Diff and Patch](https://github.com/josephburnett/jd)

- JSON diff and patch (jd) is a command-line utility and Go library for comparing and modifying JSON and YAML values, supporting multiple formats like jd, JSON Merge Patch (RFC 7386), and a subset of JSON Patch (RFC 6902).
- Installation options include Homebrew, Go install, GitHub releases, and Docker, with a web UI available at jd-tool.io or locally via `jd -port 8080`.
- Key features include color diff, patch application, output redirection, array handling as sets or multisets, YAML support, and format translation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41482661)

- Jd is a tool for diffing and patching JSON files, created by Joseph Burnett, and aims to complement `jq` by handling JSON arrays' ordering.
- The tool has been updated to address issues with detecting missing elements in large JSON files, with a new v2 API that computes the longest common subsequence of two arrays.
- Users have found Jd useful for tasks such as manual snapshot testing, debugging API responses, and comparing massive JSON files, with suggestions for further improvements like adding jq query syntax and creating a VSCode extension.

## [Synthetic diamonds are now purer, more beautiful, and cheaper than mined](https://worksinprogress.co/issue/lab-grown-diamonds/)

- Lab-grown diamonds, first synthesized in the 1950s, are now cheaper, purer, and dominate the industrial market, offering a cost-effective and high-quality alternative to mined diamonds.
- Chemical vapor deposition (CVD) is a method developed in the 1950s for producing diamonds, allowing precise control and customization of diamond properties, making them suitable for various industrial applications.
- Advances in diamond manufacturing continue to unlock new uses and improve existing applications, demonstrating human ingenuity in enhancing natural processes.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41488353)

- Synthetic diamonds have become purer, more aesthetically pleasing, and more affordable than natural diamonds due to technological advancements.
- Machines to produce synthetic diamonds are now available for around $200,000, and companies like De Beers' Element Six are selling them for industrial purposes.
- Lab-grown diamonds and moissanites are significantly cheaper, with lab diamonds costing less than $200 per carat and moissanites under $5 per carat, making diamonds more accessible and expanding their industrial applications.

## [Apple Hearing Study shares preliminary insights on tinnitus](https://www.apple.com/newsroom/2024/05/apple-hearing-study-shares-preliminary-insights-on-tinnitus/)

- Researchers from the University of Michigan released data from a large tinnitus survey involving over 160,000 participants, aiming to improve understanding and management of the condition.
- Key findings include that 77.6% of participants have experienced tinnitus, with 15% experiencing it daily, and prevalence increases with age, especially among those 55 and older.
- The study, part of Apple's Research app, highlights common management methods and causes, and aims to advance understanding of sound exposure and its impact on hearing health.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41491121)

- Apple's Hearing Study provides preliminary insights into tinnitus, highlighting the psychological aspects and personal experiences of users.
- Key advice includes avoiding overthinking, using distractions, and managing stress and muscle tension, with some users finding relief through hearing aids or addressing health issues.
- The study also explores the potential effects of modern audio devices like AirPods on tinnitus, with mixed opinions from users.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="QUIC is not quick enough over fast internet" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=QUIC%20is%20not%20quick%20enough%20over%20fast%20internet&subheading=Monday%2C%20September%209%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
