---
slug: '/2024/09/17'
---

# 2024-09-17

## [Dozens of Hezbollah members said to be seriously injured as devices explode](https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/dozens-of-hezbollah-members-said-serious-injured-in-beirut-as-devices-explode-in-alleged-israeli-op/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41567573)

- Dozens of Hezbollah members were injured due to exploding pagers, speculated to be a result of a supply chain attack involving modified devices.
- The incident is compared to Stuxnet, with debates on whether the pagers were tampered with or if a vulnerability was exploited.
- Discussions focus on the precision of the attack, potential civilian casualties, and the broader ethical implications.

## [Fixing an Elgato HD60 S HDMI capture device with the help of Ghidra](https://www.downtowndougbrown.com/2024/09/fixing-an-elgato-hd60-s-hdmi-capture-device-with-the-help-of-ghidra/)

- Doug Brown successfully repaired a broken Elgato Game Capture HD60 S by replacing overheating chips and fixing corrupted animation data in the SPI flash memory.
- The LED indicator issue was traced to corrupted data, likely caused by a flawed firmware update process from Elgato.
- Doug's journey highlights the importance of perseverance and technical skills in hardware repair, providing valuable insights for others facing similar issues.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41564003)

- A user shared their experience fixing an Elgato HD60 S HDMI capture device using Ghidra, a software reverse engineering tool.
- The discussion highlights the complexity and overabstraction in modern software and hardware, even in embedded systems like HDMI capture devices.
- The post sparked a broader conversation about the decline in repair culture and the rise of consumerism, with many users reminiscing about the past when repairing and reusing items was more common.

## [macOS Sequoia is available today](https://www.apple.com/newsroom/2024/09/macos-sequoia-is-available-today/)

- macOS Sequoia is now available as a free update, introducing iPhone Mirroring, Safari updates, Window Tiling, and a new Passwords app.
- Apple Intelligence, featuring advanced generative models and personal context, will be available next month for Macs with M-series chips.
- Additional features include scheduled messages and new text effects in Messages, live transcription in Notes, and custom hiking routes in Maps.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41559761)

- macOS Sequoia has been released, introducing new features like window snapping and iPhone Mirroring, though the latter is unavailable in the EU due to regulatory issues.
- Users have reported complications, including weekly screen-recording permissions, removal of certain sudo commands, and changes to Gatekeeper bypass methods, causing some to delay updating.
- Third-party apps such as Rectangle and BetterTouchTool are recommended for enhanced window management, as the new window snapping feature lacks keyboard shortcuts.

## [Void, an open-source Cursor/GitHub Copilot alternative](https://github.com/voideditor/void)

- Andrew, one of the creators of Void, introduces it as an open-source version of Cursor with customizable IDE (Integrated Development Environment) features.
- Void is a fork of Visual Studio Code (vscode), aiming to enhance AI editing capabilities and file system understanding, while addressing challenges with Microsoft's closed-source extension marketplace.
- The project is in its early stages with a working prototype, and the team is actively seeking contributions and feedback from the community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41563958)

- Void is an open-source alternative to Cursor/GitHub Copilot, designed to enhance AI capabilities in code editing and offers customizable IDE features.
- Built as a fork of VSCode, it faces challenges with UI modifications and Microsoft's closed-source extension marketplace, but seeks contributions and feedback from the community.
- The project plans to monetize through enterprise on-premises hosting, ensuring data privacy, and allows direct use of LLM (Large Language Model) providers without intermediaries.

## [Indiana police are seizing FedEx packages containing cash](https://www.indystar.com/story/news/local/2024/08/13/california-jewelry-business-sues-indiana-over-seized-cash-fedex-henry-minh-inc/74788610007/)

- In April, police at the Indianapolis FedEx distribution center seized a box containing nearly $43,000 in cash, which has been held by the government for about four months without any criminal charges.
- Henry Minh Inc., a California jewelry business, is suing Indiana with the help of the Institute for Justice, alleging unlawful package seizures under civil forfeiture laws.
- The lawsuit highlights that 130 cash parcels were seized from the FedEx facility last year, and the next hearing is scheduled for Sept. 16 to determine if the case can proceed as a class-action suit.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41563363)

- Indiana police are seizing FedEx packages containing cash, leading to criticism and discussions about civil asset forfeiture.
- Commenters are concerned about police overreach, comparing it to theft, and discussing the role of drug-sniffing dogs and legal complexities.
- The Institute for Justice is challenging these practices, highlighting broader issues of government power, civil liberties, and constitutionality.

## [Intel lost the Sony Playstation business to AMD](https://www.reuters.com/technology/how-intel-lost-sony-playstation-business-2024-09-16/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41560648)

- Intel lost the bid for the Sony PlayStation business to AMD, despite strategic efforts to undercut AMD's profits and offer Sony an alternative.
- Backwards compatibility is vital for Sony and Nintendo, making vendor switching impractical due to the need for retooling internal libraries and maintaining compatibility with proprietary graphics APIs.
- AMD's established relationships, consistent instruction timings across console generations, and experience with high-performing APUs made them the preferred choice for Sony.

## [Chain of Thought empowers transformers to solve inherently serial problems](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.12875)

- The study introduces the concept of "chain of thought" (CoT) to improve the accuracy of large language models (LLMs) on arithmetic and symbolic reasoning tasks by generating intermediate steps.
- CoT enables constant-depth transformers to solve inherently serial problems, which are typically challenging for these models, by allowing them to perform computations that would otherwise require deeper architectures.
- Empirical results show significant accuracy improvements in tasks difficult for parallel computation, such as permutation group composition and iterated squaring, particularly benefiting low-depth transformers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41562673)

- Chain of Thought allows transformers to address sequential problems, but practical applications are limited due to efficiency concerns and the nature of most problems not being formal languages.
- Yoav Goldberg humorously pointed out that transformers might compute indefinitely without providing answers, highlighting unpredictability in problem-solving.
- While transformers can theoretically solve any problem with sufficient intermediate reasoning tokens, practical efficiency and real-world applications remain uncertain.

## [Why to Not Write a Book](https://gwern.net/book-writing)

- The author argues against turning Gwern.net into a book, citing the high opportunity cost and risk involved in book writing.
- Writing a book is often seen as prestigious but can lead to depression, burnout, and stifled creativity, as evidenced by writers like Tim Urban.
- The author believes that not all writers should feel pressured to write a book, as the process can be more draining than rewarding.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41563626)

- The blog post uses a metaphor comparing novels to "facehuggers" from the Aliens franchise, suggesting writers should only write if they feel an overwhelming urge.
- It discusses the challenges of writing, including the need for a structured process, proofreading, and understanding the commercial aspects of publishing.
- Comments highlight the formulaic nature of successful writing, the importance of writing to market, and the necessity of passion and dedication.

## [Four Seconds to Hot Up the Disintegrator, Google Had Told Me It Wasn't Enough](https://quoteinvestigator.com/2024/09/16/hot-sf/)

- In 1953, Raymond Chandler used the term "Google" in a letter parodying science fiction, referring to an information source, predating the company's existence.
- Chandler's use of "Google" might have been influenced by cricket terminology, the comic strip character Barney Google, or the mathematical term "Googol."
- The search engine name "Google" was chosen in 1997, inspired by "Googol," to reflect the vast scale of information it aimed to organize.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41567301)

- The post discusses a quote from a science fiction story by Chandler, highlighting the use of esoteric and imaginative language typical of Golden and Silver Age sci-fi.
- The conversation delves into the trope of using unusual terms for mundane actions, known as "Call A Rabbit a 'Smerp'," and the challenges of writing engaging opening sentences in literature.
- The quote's mention of "Google" is analyzed, with some speculating it was used as a quirky name rather than a reference to the tech giant, reflecting the playful and inventive nature of sci-fi writing.

## [The Centrality of Stupidity in Mathematics](https://mathforlove.com/2024/09/the-centrality-of-stupidity-in-mathematics/)

- "The Importance of Stupidity in Scientific Research" (2008) by Martin Schwartz emphasizes the value of feeling "stupid" in scientific inquiry, arguing that it is essential for genuine effort and learning.
- The concept is particularly relevant in mathematics, where students often experience and overcome feelings of stupidity, leading to sudden leaps in comprehension and the construction of new mental pathways.
- Teachers must empathize with students' struggles and assure them that feeling stupid is a natural part of learning math, helping them embrace the difficulty and joy of mathematical discovery.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41566446)

- The discussion centers on the feeling of "stupidity" in academic and research settings, particularly in mathematics and science, and how it is a normal part of the learning process.
- The post highlights that feeling inadequate or ignorant is common among students and researchers, and it can be a driving force for curiosity and deeper understanding.
- The conversation includes various perspectives on how educational systems should address this feeling, suggesting that fostering curiosity and resilience is more effective than traditional methods that emphasize struggle.

## [Y Combinator is predicated on startups that require low capitalization](https://twitter.com/bradneuberg/status/1835680235049869495)

- Y Combinator targets startups that require minimal capital investment, utilizing established technologies such as open source software, smartphones, and cloud services.
- This approach has been consistent even prior to 2015, indicating a long-standing strategy of leveraging readily available technological resources.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41562981)

- Y Combinator (YC) is criticized for having terms that are less favorable for high-capital hardware startups, which need substantial funding before reaching Series A.
- The debate underscores a shift from low-capital expenditure (capex) startups, like "Airbnb for dogs," to high-capex ventures, such as quantum computing.
- Some argue YC's model, which favors quick, low-cost software solutions, may be outdated as advancing tech demands more capital, while others believe YC's broad funding approach still increases the chances of success.

## [What are the best options for Amazon SDEs thinking about leaving over RTO policy](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41563621)

- SDEs (Software Development Engineers) considering leaving Amazon due to the 5-day Return to Office (RTO) policy are seeking options with better Work From Home (WFH) flexibility.
- Ideal alternatives should offer interesting projects, quality colleagues, and competitive salaries, especially for those with a focus on databases or general systems programming.
- The query is from an SDE3 (Senior Software Development Engineer) in Seattle, open to roles requiring 0-2 days per week onsite.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41563621)

- Amazon Software Development Engineers (SDEs) are contemplating leaving due to the new 5-day Return to Office (RTO) policy, seeking work-from-home (WFH) flexibility, engaging projects, and competitive salaries.
- Some employees consider slacking until they receive a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) for a payout while job hunting, but others stress the importance of maintaining personal integrity and finding jobs that align with their values.
- Alternatives include joining startups, other tech giants like Microsoft or Google, exploring entrepreneurial ventures, networking, discussing flexible arrangements with managers, or even unionizing to address the RTO policy collectively.

## [Rga: Ripgrep, but also search in PDFs, E-Books, Office documents, zip, etc.](https://github.com/phiresky/ripgrep-all)

- rga is an extended version of ripgrep, a line-oriented search tool, that can search within various file types such as PDFs, E-Books, Office documents, and compressed files.
- It supports multiple adapters like pandoc for document conversion, poppler for PDF text extraction, and ffmpeg for video metadata, making it versatile for different file formats.
- Installation is available for multiple platforms including Linux, macOS, and Windows, with specific package managers like Homebrew, Chocolatey, and Scoop providing easy setup options.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41567262)

- Rga (Ripgrep) is a tool that extends search capabilities to include PDFs, E-Books, Office documents, and zip files, enhancing its utility beyond plain text files.
- Users appreciate Rga for its versatility in various applications, such as sifting through logs in zip files and searching movie subtitles.
- There are security concerns regarding the reading of documents, as it can be unsafe even without executing embedded code, highlighting the need for secure design practices.

## [Rainfrog – a database management TUI for Postgres](https://github.com/achristmascarl/rainfrog)

- Rainfrog is a terminal-based database management tool for Postgres, currently in beta, designed as a lightweight alternative to pgAdmin and DBeaver.
- Key features include vim-like keybindings, a query editor with keyword highlighting, session history, and cross-platform support (macOS, Linux, Windows, Android via Termux).
- Active development with potential breaking changes; not recommended for production databases with write access.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41563100)

- Rainfrog is a Text User Interface (TUI) tool designed for managing Postgres databases, offering easier navigation and editing compared to psql.
- The author of Rainfrog plans to expand support to other databases, including MySQL and SQLite, enhancing its versatility.
- Users compare Rainfrog to other database management tools like Postico and DataGrip, and discuss secure credential handling and technical feedback on its code.

## [47-year-old Voyager 1 fired up thrusters it hasn't used in decades](https://www.cnn.com/2024/09/16/science/voyager-1-thruster-issue/index.html)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41564009)

- Voyager 1, a 47-year-old spacecraft, recently activated thrusters that had been dormant for decades, showcasing its remarkable longevity and engineering.
- Users on Hacker News praised Voyager as a top technological achievement, emphasizing its resilience and the simplicity and reliability of its design compared to modern technologies.
- The discussion also highlighted the challenges of communicating with Voyager, including the 22-hour signal delay between Earth and the spacecraft.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Dozens of Hezbollah members said to be seriously injured as devices explode" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Dozens%20of%20Hezbollah%20members%20said%20to%20be%20seriously%20injured%20as%20devices%20explode&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20September%2017%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
