---
slug: '/2024/09/19'
---

# 2024-09-19

## [Comic Mono](https://dtinth.github.io/comic-mono-font/)

- Comic Mono is a new monospace font derived from Shannon Miwa’s Comic Shanns (version 1), with all glyphs having the same width and adjusted metrics for better display.
- The font was created using a Python script and FontForge, with a bold version generated through FontForge’s Embolden operation.
- Comic Mono is available for download and use under the MIT License, with additional distribution options via CDN, npm, and Linux packages.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41585156)

- Comic Mono, a monospaced font inspired by Comic Sans, has gained attention for making coding more enjoyable and easier on the eyes.
- Users are comparing Comic Mono to other fonts like Comic Code, noting differences in readability and aesthetics, with some preferring Comic Code for its polished look.
- The discussion highlights the use of Comic Sans-style fonts for reducing eyestrain and aiding dyslexia, showing a practical side to these often-mocked fonts.

## [LinkedIn is now using everyone's content to train their AI tool](https://twitter.com/RachelTobac/status/1836471586624540705)

- LinkedIn is utilizing user-generated content to train its AI tool by default, raising privacy concerns.
- Users are advised to opt out by navigating to Settings and Privacy > Data Privacy > Data for Generative AI Improvement and turning it off.
- The recommendation extends to organizations to cease auto opt-ins to protect user data privacy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41584486)

- LinkedIn is utilizing user content to train its AI tool, leading to mixed reactions regarding the quality and authenticity of the content.
- Privacy concerns have arisen as users were auto-enrolled without explicit consent, though EU users are exempt due to GDPR regulations.
- Critics argue LinkedIn should prioritize enhancing core features over AI development, with some users considering opting out or leaving the platform.

## [My son might be blind – how to best support](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41588200)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41588200)

- Parents concerned about their child's potential blindness are seeking resources and advice for support.
- Suggestions include fostering independence, integrating with peers, and utilizing resources from organizations like the Braille Institute and the American Foundation for the Blind.
- Personal stories highlight successful strategies like echolocation and integrating blind children into regular activities.

## [Nintendo Files Suit for Infringement of Patent Rights Against Pocketpair, Inc](https://www.nintendo.co.jp/corporate/release/en/2024/240919.html)

- Nintendo and The Pokémon Company have filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Pocketpair, Inc. in the Tokyo District Court.
- The lawsuit claims that Pocketpair's game, Palworld, infringes on multiple patent rights, seeking an injunction and compensation for damages.
- Nintendo emphasizes its commitment to protecting its intellectual property rights, including the Nintendo brand, through necessary legal actions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41587214)

- Nintendo has initiated a patent infringement lawsuit against Pocketpair, Inc. concerning their game Palworld, focusing on game mechanics rather than character likenesses.
- Pocketpair has engaged legal representation to contest the claims, underscoring the complexities and controversies of software patents in the gaming industry.
- This case brings attention to the ongoing debate over the scope and impact of software patents on game development and innovation.

## [Pivotal Tracker will shut down](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/blog/2024-09-18-end-of-life)

- VMware Tanzu has announced the end-of-life (EOL) for Pivotal Tracker, effective April 30, 2025, with support provided until that date.
- All accounts (free, sponsored, paid, Enterprise) are affected, and users should export their data before the service ends; instructions are available in the Help Center.
- New sign-ups are not possible, but existing accounts can still invite new users within collaborator limits.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41591622)

- Pivotal Tracker is shutting down, creating an opportunity for developers to clone the beloved product using modern technologies.
- The shutdown is part of VMware's broader strategy following its acquisition by Broadcom, and users are advised to migrate their data before the service ends.
- Alternatives like Linear and Shortcut exist, but Pivotal Tracker's simplicity and focus are highly valued by its users.

## [Cloudflare misidentifies Hetzner IPs as being located in Iran](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/gl-infra/production/-/issues/8121#note_1237201726)

- High failure rates in CI (Continuous Integration) build jobs on GitLab are being reported, particularly due to intermittent timeouts from Hetzner.de VPSes when pulling Docker images from registry.gitlab.com.
- The error message indicates a client timeout while awaiting headers, and while restarting the pipeline sometimes helps, multiple retries have recently failed to resolve the issue.
- The issue seems specific to registry.gitlab.com, as git clones from various GitLab repositories do not experience similar failures, suggesting a problem with the Docker image registry service.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41585249)

- Cloudflare is incorrectly identifying Hetzner IP addresses as being located in Iran, leading to user access issues.
- This misidentification problem is not exclusive to Cloudflare; Google has faced similar issues.
- The discussion highlights how nationality and the reputation of one's country can impact access to services, travel, and opportunities, with broader implications for sanctions affecting ordinary citizens more than government officials.

## [Glass Antenna Turns windows into 5G Base Stations](https://spectrum.ieee.org/5g-antenna-transparent-window)

- Researchers have developed glass antennas that can turn windows into 5G base stations, enhancing cell coverage without being noticeable.
- These antennas use transparent conductive layers, allowing windows to function as 5G cellular antennas while maintaining their transparency.
- This innovation could significantly improve 5G network coverage in urban areas by utilizing existing window surfaces.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41592552)

- Glass antennas can transform windows into 5G base stations, potentially reducing installation costs and enhancing coverage.
- The technology employs transparent antennas to transmit 5G signals through low-E glass, which usually blocks these frequencies, allowing for indoor antenna placement.
- Concerns exist regarding the transparency, appearance, safety, power levels, and overall feasibility of widespread adoption of this innovation.

## [A CLI tool I made to self-host any app with two commands on a VPS](https://github.com/MightyMoud/sidekick)

- Sidekick simplifies VPS (Virtual Private Server) hosting with features like one-command setup, zero downtime deployment, and high availability.
- It aims to make hosting straightforward and affordable, targeting users tired of complex setups for side projects.
- Key functionalities include deploying applications from Dockerfiles, managing environment secrets securely, and connecting multiple domains with zero configuration SSL certificates.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41591018)

- A new CLI tool called Sidekick has been released, allowing users to self-host any app on a VPS with just two commands.
- The tool is designed to simplify deployment, handling tasks like setting up TLS/SSL certificates and managing Docker containers.
- Future updates are expected to include database hosting and support for docker-compose, making it a versatile option for developers looking for an easy deployment solution.

## [Mozilla has fired their Chief Product Officer after cancer diagnosis](https://mastodon.social/@stevetex/113162099798398758)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41588667)

- Mozilla has terminated their Chief Product Officer following a cancer diagnosis, leading to widespread controversy and criticism.
- Users are expressing disappointment and comparing Mozilla to unethical startups and hedge funds, with some suggesting alternative browsers like Ladybird, LibreWolf, or Brave.
- The incident has sparked discussions on workplace ethics, DEI (Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion) policies, and the future of Firefox without Mozilla.

## [Chili. Rust port of Spice, a low-overhead parallelization library](https://github.com/dragostis/chili)

- Chili is a Rust port of Spice, a low-overhead parallelization library, designed to run two closures in parallel at any computation fork point, similar to rayon::join.
- It is particularly effective for small computations where estimating remaining tasks is costly, as demonstrated by its performance in summing nodes in a binary tree.
- Benchmarks show significant performance improvements with larger datasets, especially on AMD Ryzen 7 4800HS and Apple M1 processors, highlighting its efficiency in parallel processing.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41591449)

- Chili is a Rust port of Spice, a low-overhead parallelization library, favored for its efficiency in small operations compared to Rayon.
- Discussions include comparisons with other parallelization libraries like OpenMP and the overhead involved.
- For detailed implementation information, users are directed to the Spice README on GitHub.

## [Ruby-SAML pwned by XML signature wrapping attacks](https://ssoready.com/blog/engineering/ruby-saml-pwned-by-xml-signature-wrapping-attacks/)

- Ruby-SAML has been compromised by XML signature wrapping attacks, impacting platforms like GitLab.
- CVE-2024-45409, published on September 10, 2024, reveals this vulnerability, enabling attackers to log in as any user.
- The core issue lies in the SAML and XML Signatures specifications, and engineers are advised to adopt secure practices beyond the flawed specifications.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41586031)

- Ruby-SAML is vulnerable to XML signature wrapping attacks, highlighting security concerns in its implementation.
- SAML, despite its complexity and implementation challenges, remains widely used in enterprise and academic settings.
- There is a growing push towards adopting simpler alternatives like OpenID Connect (OIDC).

## [I've Built an Accounting System](https://github.com/denys-olleik/accounting)

- The tool can generate invoices and process payments, but it is not yet ready for production use.
- Currently, it requires PostgreSQL to function, with plans to add SQLite support once it natively supports geography types.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41585468)

- An accounting system has been developed that can create invoices and receive payments, but it is not yet production-ready and currently requires PostgreSQL.
- Feedback highlights the need for additional features such as purchase order management, capex, approval workflows, and multi-company/currency support, comparing it to QuickBooks.
- The project shows promise but requires more features, testing, and continuous updates to stay relevant and meet the needs of businesses, especially larger organizations.

## [US health system ranks last compared with peer nations – report](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2024/sep/18/american-health-system-ranks-last)

- The US health system ranks last among 10 peer nations, despite Americans paying nearly double for healthcare, according to a Commonwealth Fund report.
- The system performed poorly on health equity, access to care, and outcomes, with recommendations including expanding insurance coverage and reducing patient expenses.
- Both major presidential candidates have not proposed significant healthcare reforms, despite voters prioritizing healthcare costs, with Americans spending $4.5 trillion annually.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41588717)

- A report indicates that the US health system ranks last among peer nations, sparking discussions on a forum about global healthcare experiences.
- Users compared the US system's slowness and inefficiencies to faster, cheaper medical services in countries like India and the benefits of digital health records in Estonia.
- The conversation also highlighted high costs and inefficiencies in the US, with frustrations over long waiting times and lack of timely care despite good insurance.

## [Lichess: Post-Mortem of Our Longest Downtime](https://lichess.org/@/Lichess/blog/post-mortem-of-our-longest-downtime/XAgG7jbd)

- Lichess experienced its longest downtime ever, lasting 10 hours from September 12th to 13th, due to a hardware issue at OVH's data center.
- Despite the downtime, Lichess's content team continued their Chess Olympiad commentary using a private sandbox version of the site.
- Lichess plans to investigate the issue further and implement additional failsafes, although these measures are time-consuming and resource-intensive.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41586579)

- Lichess experienced its longest downtime due to a hardware issue on their main server, which handles approximately 5 million games daily.
- The incident raised concerns about Lichess's reliance on a single physical server and their failover plans, despite their significant monthly running costs of around $40k.
- The post-mortem was praised for its transparency, highlighting the dedication of founder Thibault Duplessis and encouraging users to donate to support the service.

## [Forbes Marketplace: The Parasite SEO Company Trying to Devour Its Host](https://larslofgren.com/forbes-marketplace/)

- Forbes Marketplace, a separate entity from Forbes, uses aggressive SEO strategies to dominate search results in various categories, including health, home improvement, and sports betting.
- This approach has resulted in Forbes receiving over 27 million visits per month and generating significant revenue, estimated in the hundreds of millions annually.
- The core issue is Google's algorithm, which prioritizes Forbes' content over smaller, more specialized publishers, raising concerns about the fairness and accuracy of search result rankings.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41590466)

- The article discusses the prevalence of "parasite SEO" companies, which exploit trusted domains like Forbes to rank high in search results despite low-quality content.
- Google is criticized for allowing these practices, as it prioritizes ad revenue and trusted domains over content quality, requiring manual intervention to address the issue.
- The phenomenon is not new and has been observed with other sites like HowStuffWorks and LiveStrong, highlighting a broader issue with search engine optimization and content relevance.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Comic Mono" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Comic%20Mono&subheading=Thursday%2C%20September%2019%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
