---
slug: '/2024/09/20'
---

# 2024-09-20

## [Gaining access to anyones Arc browser without them even visiting a website](https://kibty.town/blog/arc/)

- A security researcher discovered a vulnerability in Arc's app, allowing arbitrary JavaScript execution on other users' browsers by manipulating the creatorID field.
- The vulnerability was reported, patched, and a $2,000 bounty was awarded within a day, with a CVE (CVE-2024-45489) assigned later.
- Arc responded by addressing privacy concerns, switching off Firebase, and initiating a bug bounty program to improve security.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41597250)

- The Browser Company, makers of Arc, disclosed a significant vulnerability that allowed access to users' browsers without visiting a specific website. The issue has been patched, and no users were affected.
- The company plans to move off Firebase, set up a bug bounty program, and bolster their security team, including hiring a new senior security engineer.
- The incident has sparked discussions about the adequacy of the $2,000 bug bounty, with many suggesting it should be significantly higher given the severity of the vulnerability.

## [3K free SVG icons for popular brands](https://simpleicons.org/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41597162)

- SimpleIcons.org has released a collection of 3,000 free SVG icons for popular brands, attracting significant attention from the tech community.
- The collection is notable for its extensive range and ease of use, but users are advised to check licensing agreements to avoid potential trademark infringements.
- The release has sparked discussions about the legal implications of using brand logos without explicit permission, highlighting the importance of understanding intellectual property rights.

## [GitHub notification emails used to send malware](https://ianspence.com/blog/2024-09/github-email-hijack/)

- Attackers are exploiting GitHub notification emails to distribute malware by creating and quickly deleting issues on public repositories.
- The malware, named "LUMMASTEALER," steals sensitive data such as cryptocurrency wallets and stored credentials by tricking users into running a malicious PowerShell command.
- The attack leverages weaknesses in Windows' handling of downloaded files and code-signing certificates, and improvements in GitHub's notification emails could mitigate such threats.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41596466)

- GitHub notification emails have been exploited to distribute malware, raising concerns about security.
- Discussions emphasize the importance of recognizing red flags, such as suspicious domains and commands needing shell input, to avoid falling for scams.
- The conversation underscores that even experienced users can be deceived, highlighting the need for enhanced security measures on GitHub.

## [Visual guide to SSH tunneling and port forwarding (2023)](https://ittavern.com/visual-guide-to-ssh-tunneling-and-port-forwarding/)

- The blog post provides an in-depth guide on port forwarding and tunneling, covering use cases, configuration, and limitations.
- Key topics include encrypting insecure connections, accessing web admin panels via SSH, and using SSH jumphosts to reach internal servers.
- Important configurations and commands for local, remote, and dynamic port forwarding are detailed, along with the limitations and potential security risks of SSH tunneling.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41596818)

- In 2024, configuring `~/.ssh/config` with `LocalForward`, `RemoteForward`, and `ProxyJump` is recommended to streamline SSH connections and save time.
- This setup allows seamless SSH, SCP, and RSYNC operations to a target server via an alias and forwards specific ports for local and remote access.
- Using `0.0.0.0` instead of `localhost` or `127.0.0.1` can expose ports on all network interfaces, so ensure proper firewall settings to maintain security.

## [Linux/4004: booting Linux on Intel 4004 for fun, art, and no profit](https://dmitry.gr/?r=05.Projects&proj=35.%20Linux4004)

- A tech enthusiast successfully booted Debian Linux on a 4-bit Intel 4004 microprocessor from 1971, showcasing the capabilities of this historic CPU.
- The project involved creating a custom development board and writing a 4004 emulator to run a MIPS R3000 emulator, demonstrating significant hardware and software optimization.
- This achievement highlights the potential of low-end hardware and serves as a milestone in the history of computing, pushing the boundaries of what older technology can accomplish.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41600756)

- Dmitry has successfully booted Linux on an Intel 4004 microprocessor, a feat that showcases the extreme limits of Turing Completeness and computational capability.
- The project highlights the historical significance of the Intel 4004, the first commercially available microprocessor, and demonstrates its ability to run modern software, albeit extremely slowly.
- This achievement has garnered significant attention due to its technical complexity and the novelty of running a modern operating system on such an underpowered and ancient piece of hardware.

## [Zb: An Early-Stage Build System](https://www.zombiezen.com/blog/2024/09/zb-early-stage-build-system/)

- zb is an early-stage build system developed by Roxy Light, aimed at user-friendly reproducible builds and dependency management.
- Key features include a familiar Lua scripting language, powerful build capabilities, support for non-deterministic builds, compatibility with Nix, and cross-platform support (Windows, Linux, macOS).
- zb has reached a significant milestone by no longer depending on Nix, with a new backend supporting content-addressed derivations and the "Intensional Model" from The Purely Functional Software Deployment Model.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41595310)

- Zb is an early-stage build system designed to simplify the build model by supporting only content-addressed derivations, differing from Nix's approach.
- The system aims to address interoperability issues with Nix, such as the lack of cross-store references and the need for a Nix evaluator to obtain Nixpkgs derivations.
- Zb introduces a JSON-RPC-based public API for running builds, which could potentially make the infrastructure ecosystem easier to manage and integrate.

## [Contextual Retrieval](https://www.anthropic.com/news/contextual-retrieval)

- Contextual Retrieval is introduced to improve the retrieval step in Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) by using Contextual Embeddings and Contextual BM25, reducing failed retrievals by up to 67% when combined with reranking.
- This method enhances retrieval accuracy, leading to better performance in downstream tasks such as customer support and legal analysis, and can be deployed using the provided cookbook.
- Traditional RAG often loses context by splitting documents into smaller chunks; Contextual Retrieval addresses this by prepending chunk-specific explanatory context before embedding and creating the BM25 index.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41598119)

- Anthropic has introduced prompt caching to improve the cost-effectiveness of their Contextual Retrieval process, which is a method to enhance Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) results by expanding chunks using a Large Language Model (LLM).
- Prompt caching allows developers to save costs by storing the state after running a large document through a model, rather than regenerating each chunk every time, making it a significant update for those working with RAG workflows.
- The post highlights that while the cookbook provides a guide for a specific RAG workflow, the real innovation lies in the cost-saving feature of prompt caching, which was introduced a month ago.

## [Why Apple Uses JPEG XL in the iPhone 16 and What It Means for Your Photos](https://petapixel.com/2024/09/18/why-apple-uses-jpeg-xl-in-the-iphone-16-and-what-it-means-for-your-photos/)

- The iPhone 16 introduces JPEG XL, a next-generation image format that offers better quality and smaller file sizes compared to standard JPEGs.
- JPEG XL supports wide-gamut and HDR images, offers up to 32 bits per channel, and can reduce file sizes by up to 55% while maintaining visual quality.
- Despite its advantages, JPEG XL is not widely adopted yet, with limited support from major browsers, but Apple’s inclusion in the iPhone 16 Pro may encourage broader adoption.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41598170)

- Apple's integration of JPEG XL in the iPhone 16 enhances photo quality and storage efficiency, offering up to 55% better compression than standard JPEGs.
- This is particularly advantageous for ProRAW images, which are large and can now be stored more efficiently, though currently limited to the latest iPhone models.
- Broader adoption by other companies, such as Samsung, indicates a promising future for JPEG XL, despite some concerns about compatibility and ecological impact.

## [CuPy: NumPy and SciPy for GPU](https://github.com/cupy/cupy)

- CuPy is a GPU-accelerated array library compatible with NumPy and SciPy, designed to run on NVIDIA CUDA and AMD ROCm platforms, enabling existing Python code to leverage GPU computing.
- It provides access to low-level CUDA features, facilitating integration with CUDA C/C++ programs, Streams, and CUDA Runtime APIs.
- CuPy can be installed via pip, conda, or Docker, with specific versions available for different CUDA and ROCm versions, and is developed under the MIT License by Preferred Networks and community contributors.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41601730)

- CuPy is highlighted as a drop-in replacement for NumPy, offering GPU acceleration and compatibility with AMD GPUs, making it appealing for high-performance computing.
- CuPy, along with NumPy and PyTorch, is working towards a shared subset of their API, enabling code interoperability across these libraries, although full compliance is still in progress.
- CuPy provides significant performance boosts for computational tasks, such as eigenvalue calculations in quantum mechanics, and supports in-place operations similar to NumPy, making it a powerful tool for GPU-accelerated computing.

## [DirectX Adopting SPIR-V as the Interchange Format of the Future](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/directx/directx-adopting-spir-v/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41595485)

- DirectX is adopting SPIR-V as its future interchange format, aligning with the industry trend where HLSL is dominant in Vulkan.
- This move is expected to ease the transition for Vulkan-focused projects and enhance compatibility, particularly in game development.
- Concerns exist about the impact on WebGPU's WGSL and the broader implications for shader languages and industry standards.

## [Training Language Models to Self-Correct via Reinforcement Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.12917)

- Researchers introduced SCoRe, a multi-turn online reinforcement learning (RL) method to enhance self-correction in large language models (LLMs) using self-generated data.
- SCoRe addresses the limitations of supervised fine-tuning (SFT) by training under the model's own distribution, improving self-correction by 15.6% and 9.1% on MATH and HumanEval benchmarks, respectively.
- This advancement is significant as it reduces the need for multiple models or external supervision, making self-correction more efficient and effective.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41600179)

- A new paper discusses training language models to self-correct using reinforcement learning (RL), a method where models learn from their mistakes to improve future performance.
- This approach is compared to OpenAI's o1 model, which also uses RL to refine its reasoning and correct errors, although the exact methods and details differ.
- The paper highlights the challenge of guiding models to adopt self-correcting techniques rather than attempting to get the answer right on the first try, a significant step in improving language model accuracy and reliability.

## [Foundations: Why Britain Has Stagnated](https://ukfoundations.co)

- Britain's economy has stagnated due to restrictions on investment in housing, transport, and energy, with real wage growth stagnant for 16 years.
- High infrastructure costs, restrictive housing policies, and expensive energy have contributed to the economic slowdown.
- Solutions include removing barriers to private investment, streamlining planning processes, and adopting successful international models, such as South Korea’s approach to nuclear power.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41600388)

- The article attributes Britain's economic stagnation to historical government policies, including post-WWII state investment and 1980s Conservative privatization.
- Critics argue that privatization has led to long-term decline, using examples like the poor performance of water companies.
- The discussion also highlights the influence of right-wing think tanks and compares Britain's economic context with other countries, emphasizing restrictive planning systems and insufficient infrastructure investment as key factors.

## [Openpilot – Operating system for robotics](https://github.com/commaai/openpilot)

- openpilot is an operating system for enhancing driver assistance in over 275 supported cars, requiring a comma 3/3X device and a compatible car harness.
- The software follows ISO26262 safety guidelines, undergoes rigorous testing, and is released under the MIT license, emphasizing its alpha quality and research purposes only.
- User data, including road-facing camera footage and other sensor logs, is uploaded by default to improve the system, with options to disable data collection and opt-in for driver-facing camera logging.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41600177)

- Openpilot, developed by Comma.ai, is an advanced driver assistance system (ADAS) that offers hands-off driving assistance, enhancing driver confidence and alertness on long trips.
- The system is compatible with over 275 car models and integrates with existing car sensors, providing features like lane keeping and distance assist, though it is not a fully self-driving solution.
- Despite minimal venture capital funding and a small team, Comma.ai has created a profitable product, with Openpilot being open-source and licensed under MIT, ensuring transparency and community support.

## [Three Mile Island nuclear plant restart in Microsoft AI power deal](https://www.reuters.com/markets/deals/constellation-inks-power-supply-deal-with-microsoft-2024-09-20/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41601443)

- Three Mile Island nuclear plant will restart to power Microsoft's AI operations, with Constellation investing $1.6 billion to bring it online by 2028, providing 835 megawatts of energy.
- The deal underscores the reliability of nuclear power compared to solar and wind, particularly during prolonged adverse weather conditions.
- The discussion includes considerations of nuclear power's high initial costs, long-term low fuel costs, and public safety concerns, referencing past incidents like Three Mile Island, Fukushima, and Chernobyl.

## [Visualizing Weather Forecasts Through Landscape Imagery](https://github.com/lds133/weather_landscape)

- A new method visualizes weather forecasts through landscape imagery, making it more intuitive and less stressful than traditional numerical data.
- The landscape image encodes various weather elements, such as wind direction, temperature, cloud cover, and precipitation, along with non-weather events like birthdays and holidays.
- Implemented using Python and the Pillow library, the system is designed for a 296x128 E-Ink display and updates every 15 minutes using an ESP32 development board.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41603546)

- A project visualizes weather forecasts through landscape imagery, aiming to set the mood rather than provide accurate weather reports.
- Users have shared various implementations, including using OpenAI's DALL-E to generate images based on current weather data and integrating with microcontrollers.
- The project has sparked interest due to its creative approach to weather visualization, with suggestions for improvements like offline functionality and direct sensor interfacing.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Gaining access to anyones Arc browser without them even visiting a website" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Gaining%20access%20to%20anyones%20Arc%20browser%20without%20them%20even%20visiting%20a%20website&subheading=Friday%2C%20September%2020%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
