---
slug: '/2024/09/22'
---

# 2024-09-22

## [Sanding UI](https://blog.jim-nielsen.com/2024/sanding-ui/)

- The author describes their iterative development process, likening it to woodworking, where they build, test, and refine until the software is smooth and issue-free.
- A recent challenge involved aligning radio options using flexbox, where a gap between the radio button and label prevented toggling; this was resolved by removing the gap and adding padding to the label.
- Emphasizes the importance of thorough testing and refinement to ensure a seamless user experience, highlighting that small issues can significantly impact overall usability.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41612154)

- The discussion highlights the challenge of addressing minor UI (User Interface) issues in Agile development environments, where such issues often go unreported and unprioritized.
- There is a debate on whether Agile methodologies inherently neglect these small fixes or if it's a broader cultural issue within companies that prioritize rapid output over quality.
- Some participants argue that direct communication between developers and users can significantly improve product quality, but this is often hindered by management structures and processes.

## [They stole my voice with AI](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/blog/2024/they-stole-my-voice-ai)

- Jeff Geerling accused Elecrow of using an AI clone of his voice in their videos without his consent, which he finds troubling given their past good relationship.
- He emphasized the importance of not using someone's voice without permission and suggested hiring voiceover artists or collaborating with content creators instead.
- Jeff is uncertain about pursuing legal action due to costs and the lack of clear legal precedent for unauthorized AI voice cloning, and he has contacted Elecrow to resolve the issue.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41614490)

- A YouTuber's voice was cloned using AI, raising concerns about the misuse of AI for creating fake and potentially harmful content.
- The discussion highlights fears of AI being used to incite violence or ruin reputations, especially in societies with severe consequences for perceived blasphemy or moral violations.
- The debate includes perspectives on whether making AI tools more accessible could help the public become more skeptical of digital content, versus the potential for increased harm due to the ease of creating realistic fake evidence.

## [What happened to the Japanese PC platforms?](https://www.mistys-internet.website/blog/blog/2024/09/21/what-happened-to-the-japanese-pc-platforms/)

- In the 16-bit era, Japan had three main computer platforms: NEC’s PC-98, Fujitsu’s FM Towns, and Sharp’s X68000, with the PC-98 being the most popular.
- The transition to Windows led to the decline of these platforms as they either became less distinctive or incompatible with the new OS, while the gaming market's shift to 3D consoles further diminished their relevance.
- Despite the decline of their unique platforms, Japanese computer makers transitioned to producing standard Windows PCs, surviving better than Western counterparts like Commodore and Atari.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41612984)

- The 1997 Asian economic crisis significantly impacted Japanese PC platforms, including the SuperH processor by Hitachi, leading to a partnership with Mitsubishi to form Renesas.
- Renesas faced difficulties in continuing the development of SuperH and eventually shifted focus to new designs.
- The Japanese PC market declined due to software compatibility issues, economic pressures, and increased competition from global standards and Western companies.

## [Nextcloud: Open-Source Cloud Apps](https://nextcloud.com/)

- Nextcloud Hub 9 has been released, featuring integrated tools like Files, Talk, Groupware, and Office for enhanced collaboration and data control.
- The platform offers a self-hosted solution with customizable and scalable options, catering to various sectors including public, enterprise, and education.
- New features include a local AI assistant for content generation and email summarization, emphasizing Nextcloud's commitment to privacy and compliance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41615102)

- Nextcloud, an open-source cloud app platform, receives mixed reviews from users, with some praising its functionality and others criticizing its complexity and upgrade issues.
- Users report varied experiences, from seamless operation and easy updates to disastrous upgrades that result in data loss, highlighting the importance of backups and careful management.
- The platform's attempt to offer a wide range of features leads to debates on whether it should focus on core functionalities to improve reliability and performance.

## [Flappy Bird for Android, only C, under 100KB](https://github.com/VadimBoev/FlappyBird)

- A developer successfully created a Flappy Bird clone in C for Android, achieving an APK size under 100 KB, which is notably small for such a game.
- The project was inspired by a similar effort in C# and involved overcoming challenges with Android Native Activity and APK size constraints.
- Key technical implementations included using OpenSLES for sound playback, upng for image decoding, and OpenGL ES 2 with shaders for rendering.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41614663)

- A developer has created a Flappy Bird clone for Android using only C, with the entire app being under 100KB in size.
- The project showcases the potential for creating highly efficient and compact applications, contrasting with the trend of large, bloated apps.
- The discussion highlights the technical challenges and optimizations involved in minimizing app size, such as reducing lines of code and managing assets efficiently.

## [Hy 1.0.0, the Lisp dialect for Python, has been released](https://github.com/hylang/hy/discussions/2608)

- Hy 1.0.0, a Lisp dialect for Python, has been released after nearly 12 years of development, marking a significant milestone.
- Hy is embedded in Python, allowing seamless integration and usage within Python projects.
- Future updates will focus on bug fixes, compatibility with new Python versions, and supporting new features without breaking existing Hy 1.x.y code.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41617431)

- Hy 1.0.0, a Lisp dialect for Python, has been released, allowing users to mix Python and Hy code, ultimately producing Python bytecode.
- The compiler is written in Python, supports Python's exception system, but lacks a standalone distribution, prompting discussions on clearer documentation and tool compatibility.
- The community values the project's long-term commitment and whimsical elements, with users sharing experiences and projects using Hy.

## [WP Engine is not WordPress](https://wordpress.org/news/2024/09/wp-engine/)

- WP Engine is a separate entity from WordPress, despite branding that may suggest otherwise, and profits from this confusion.
- WP Engine disables WordPress's revision system by default to save costs, which compromises user content integrity and goes against WordPress's data protection promise.
- Customers are advised to demand at least the 3 revisions WP Engine allows or consider alternative hosting providers to maintain higher standards within the WordPress ecosystem.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41613628)

- Matt Mullenweg, CEO of Automattic, criticized WP Engine for not contributing back to the open-source WordPress project despite having similar revenue to Automattic.
- A WP Engine employee claimed that management prevents contributions to WordPress due to KPI targets and was subsequently fired, escalating the issue.
- The controversy highlights tensions between open-source principles and profit-driven business practices, with WP Engine accused of profiting from WordPress without giving back to the community.

## [It is hard to recommend Google Cloud](https://ashishb.net/programming/google-cloud/)

- Google Cloud is undergoing significant changes, including the shutdown of Google Container Registry (GCR) in 2025, to be replaced by the more expensive Artifact Registry (GAR).
- Users are experiencing difficulties and time-consuming processes in migrating their projects from GCR to GAR, adding to the frustration.
- Despite Google Cloud's superior engineering and user experience, frequent changes and disruptions make it challenging to recommend compared to AWS and Microsoft Azure.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41614795)

- Google Cloud's history of shutting down services, such as Google Domains, has made users cautious and led many to switch to alternatives like Cloudflare or AWS Route 53.
- Frequent API changes and poor customer support are significant issues that contribute to Google's perceived unreliability, despite having superior technical solutions.
- AWS and Azure are often preferred over Google Cloud due to their stability and better customer focus, despite their own flaws.

## [Infineon's CO2 Sensor Monitors Indoor Air Quality](https://www.allaboutcircuits.com/news/infineons-co2-sensor-precisely-monitors-indoor-air-quality/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41611965)

- Infineon's new CO2 sensor is effective for indoor air quality monitoring but underperforms outdoors compared to optical NDIR sensors.
- Photo-acoustic NDIR sensors, like Infineon's, are sensitive to temperature changes and low-frequency noise, making them less reliable in outdoor environments.
- Optical NDIR sensors are preferred for consistent outdoor performance, highlighting the calibration challenges and environmental considerations necessary for accurate CO2 monitoring.

## [What Is a Particle? (2020)](https://www.quantamagazine.org/what-is-a-particle-20201112/)

- Physicists' understanding of particles has evolved from pointlike objects to more complex concepts like collapsed wave functions, quantum excitations of fields, and representations of symmetry groups.
- Quantum mechanics and quantum field theory describe particles as both waves and excitations of fields, with properties defined by symmetry groups such as the Poincaré group.
- Modern theories, including string theory and the it-from-qubit hypothesis, propose particles might be vibrating strings or holograms of qubits, while amplitudeologists aim to simplify particle interactions for a deeper understanding.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41612049)

- The discussion revolves around the complex nature of particles in quantum mechanics, challenging the traditional view of particles as tiny balls and introducing them as excitations in fields.
- The term "particle" is considered misleading; in quantum field theory (QFT), particles are better understood as mathematical abstractions or excitations in fields, not physical objects.
- The conversation highlights the ongoing debate and lack of consensus among physicists about the fundamental nature of particles and fields, reflecting the evolving understanding in modern physics.

## ['I Don't Want to Die.' He needed mental health care. He found a ghost network](https://www.npr.org/sections/shots-health-news/2024/09/21/nx-s1-5120543/mental-health-care-parity-insurance-ghost-network)

- Ravi Coutinho faced significant challenges accessing mental health care through his Ambetter insurance due to a "ghost network" of unavailable providers.
- Despite multiple attempts by Ravi and his mother, Barbara, to find a therapist, they encountered numerous obstacles, leading to worsening mental health and hospital visits.
- ProPublica's investigation underscores systemic issues in mental health care access, with inaccuracies and delays in insurance networks contributing to Ravi's tragic death at 36 from complications related to excessive drinking.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41617663)

- A man seeking mental health care found many providers listed by his insurance were either unavailable or out of network, a common issue known as a "ghost network."
- Insurance companies often fail to maintain accurate directories, complicating patients' efforts to find care and causing significant stress and financial burdens.
- Some suggest eliminating health insurance middlemen or adopting a single-payer system to address these inefficiencies, though even integrated providers like Kaiser Permanente face challenges with mental health services.

## [Twenty Years of FM Synthesis Inside Ableton Live](https://roberthenke.com/technology/operator.html)

- Robert Henke celebrates the 20th anniversary of Ableton's first software synthesizer, Operator, by sharing insights, tips, and a free preset pack.
- Operator, developed in 2004, was designed for CPU efficiency and user-friendly programming, featuring innovative elements like Global Time, Tone Control, and Additive Synthesis.
- FM synthesis, pioneered by John Chowning in the 1960s, uses sine wave oscillators for complex sound creation, differing from subtractive synthesis by not requiring filters.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41613722)

- Ableton Live's FM synthesis, especially through its Operator component, has been influential over the past 20 years, impacting many VSTs (Virtual Studio Technology).
- The software's unique Session View vs Arrangement View design is highly praised for its depth and user interface (UI).
- Robert Henke's contributions, along with his live performances and workshops, are celebrated for their significant impact on the music production community.

## [PDF to MD by LLMs – Extract Text/Tables/Image Descriptives by GPT4o](https://github.com/yigitkonur/swift-ocr-llm-powered-pdf-to-markdown)

- An open-source Python API using GPT-4 for Optical Character Recognition (OCR) on PDFs has been developed, featuring parallel processing and batch handling.
- The API converts PDFs to Markdown and adds image captions, demonstrating its capability by successfully processing complex pages from NASA's Apollo 17 documents.
- The project is available on GitHub, and the developer is seeking feedback from the community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41614126)

- A Python API service using GPT-4o for OCR (Optical Character Recognition) on PDFs has been developed, featuring parallel processing and batch handling, converting PDFs to markdown and describing images with captions.
- The project, tested on NASA's Apollo 17 documents, is open-source on GitHub, but users report issues with consistency and hallucinations in LLMs (Large Language Models), suggesting traditional OCR might be more reliable for production.
- The solution is noted for its cost-effectiveness, with detailed token usage and cost comparisons provided.

## [Cloudflare Is Breaking My SVGs?](https://www.lloydatkinson.net/posts/2024/stupid-problems-require-stupid-solutions-cloudflare-is-breaking-my-svgs/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41614567)

- Users are reporting issues with SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics) rendering when using Cloudflare, particularly with React-based frameworks like Astro and Remix.
- The problem seems to be related to the build process not converting camelCase attributes to hyphen-case, but it is not widespread according to Cloudflare employees.
- Cloudflare is actively investigating the issue, and users are encouraged to provide account details for further testing and resolution.

## [Flow Computing aims to boost CPUs with ‘parallel processing units’](https://spectrum.ieee.org/parallel-processing-unit)

- Flow Computing has introduced a new technology called 'Parallel Processing Units' (PPUs) that claims to make CPUs 100 times faster.
- This innovation aims to significantly enhance computing performance by leveraging parallel processing, which allows multiple tasks to be executed simultaneously.
- The announcement has garnered attention due to its potential to revolutionize CPU speeds and efficiency, making it a notable development in the computing industry.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41612665)

- Flow Computing proposes integrating 'parallel processing units' (PPUs) with CPUs to avoid data wait times, enhancing parallel processing efficiency.
- This concept, reminiscent of past technologies like transputers and the Cell processor, faces challenges in task parallelization but shows promise with neural networks.
- The discussion compares PPUs to existing technologies such as GPUs and Xeon Phi, emphasizing the potential and complexities of modern parallel processing integration.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Sanding UI" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Sanding%20UI&subheading=Sunday%2C%20September%2022%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
