---
slug: '/2024/09/26'
---

# 2024-09-26

## [OpenAI to Become For-Profit Company](https://www.wsj.com/tech/ai/openai-chief-technology-officer-resigns-7a8b4639)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41655954)

- OpenAI is transitioning to a for-profit company, while maintaining a non-profit entity, which critics argue is now largely symbolic.
- Concerns have been raised about the legality and ethics of using scraped internet data for training AI models without proper attribution or compensation.
- The shift has led to high-level exits within the company and sparked debates about copyright laws and the potential exploitation of non-profit status.

## [Mira Murati leaves OpenAI](https://twitter.com/miramurati/status/1839025700009030027)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41651038)

- Mira Murati's departure from OpenAI has ignited discussions about the company's restructuring and future directions.
- Speculations include the possibility of departing employees starting new AI safety-focused companies or a shift in OpenAI's focus from AGI (Artificial General Intelligence) development to profit maximization.
- The debate also encompasses challenges in AI regulation, the potential for AGI, and the broader implications of AI advancements.

## [PostgreSQL 17](https://www.postgresql.org/about/news/postgresql-17-released-2936/)

- PostgreSQL 17 has been released, featuring significant enhancements in performance, scalability, and adaptability to new data access and storage patterns.
- Key improvements include better memory management, faster bulk loading, new SQL/JSON JSON_TABLE command, and simplified major version upgrades with new failover control.
- The release also introduces new TLS options, incremental backups, and enhanced monitoring tools, continuing PostgreSQL's legacy of reliability and extensibility.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41657986)

- PostgreSQL 17 has been released, featuring significant improvements such as vacuum operations using up to 20 times less memory and support for incremental backups.
- New utilities include `pg_combinebackup` for combining backups and enhancements to `postgres_fdw` for pushing EXISTS and IN subqueries to remote servers.
- The release has generated excitement in the community, particularly around the new `JSON_TABLE` functionality for handling JSON data within relational databases.

## [OpenAI to remove non-profit control and give Sam Altman equity](https://www.reuters.com/technology/artificial-intelligence/openai-remove-non-profit-control-give-sam-altman-equity-sources-say-2024-09-25/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41651548)

- OpenAI is shifting from non-profit control, granting equity to Sam Altman, which has sparked criticism for potentially contradicting the company's original mission.
- Critics argue that this move may compromise AI safety and shift focus towards profit-driven decisions, raising ethical concerns.
- The timing of this transition coincides with the departure of Mira Murati, adding to the controversy and concerns about leadership priorities.

## [Git-absorb: Git commit –fixup, but automatic](https://github.com/tummychow/git-absorb)

- Git Absorb is a tool derived from Facebook's hg absorb, designed to streamline version control by automatically folding uncommitted changes into appropriate draft ancestor changesets.
- It simplifies the process of applying review feedback by avoiding manual commits or interactive rebases, making it easier to manage feature branches and bug fixes.
- Git Absorb can be installed via system package managers or compiled from source, and it offers configurable options to adjust commit ranges, auto-stage changes, and more.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41653191)

- Git-absorb is an automated tool for creating fixup commits in Git, streamlining the process of correcting issues across multiple commits.
- It is particularly useful for maintaining clean commit histories in pull requests (PRs) by automatically associating changes with the correct commits, reducing manual effort.
- The tool is praised for its accuracy in identifying the right commits for changes, minimizing false positives and negatives, and saving time for developers who prefer logically small commits.

## [Rewriting Rust](https://josephg.com/blog/rewriting-rust/)

- The Rust programming language, initially innovative with features like memory safety and a modern package manager, now appears stagnant with slow progress and many unstable features.
- The consensus process in Rust's development may be hindering its evolution, leading to extensive discussions that often result in dead ends, such as the unresolved Mutex improvement thread.
- The author proposes significant changes, including function traits, compile-time capabilities, and adopting Zig's comptime concept, which would likely require a new edition of Rust due to incompatibility with the existing version.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41654871)

- The discussion centers around the Rust programming language's RFC (Request for Comments) process and the balance between adding new features and maintaining simplicity.
- The author argues that while Rust's core team is cautious about adding new features to avoid complexity, some existing features like `Pin` are already difficult to use and understand, suggesting a need for better design.
- The debate highlights the tension between evolving a language to meet new needs and keeping it accessible and consistent for developers, with some features taking years to implement due to extensive deliberation.

## [Sam Altman: Long con was "child's play for me"](https://old.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/3cs78i/whats_the_best_long_con_you_ever_pulled/cszwpgq/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41657001)

- Sam Altman, a prominent tech figure, is being discussed on Reddit with mixed opinions about his motives and actions.
- Some users suggest Altman has been manipulative, while others argue he has significantly contributed to Reddit's success, transforming it into a multi-billion dollar company.
- The discussion includes references to former Reddit CEOs and the impact of leadership changes on the company's trajectory.

## [Httpdbg – A tool to trace the HTTP requests sent by your Python code](https://github.com/cle-b/httpdbg)

- httpdbg is a new tool for Python developers to debug HTTP(S) client requests easily.
- It requires no external dependencies, setup, superuser privileges, or code modifications, making it simple to use.
- The tool is designed to trace HTTP requests in tests back to API client methods, and it has been found useful by other developers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41650905)

- Httpdbg is a new tool for Python developers to trace HTTP(S) requests in their code, created by cle-b.
- It simplifies debugging by linking HTTP requests to corresponding methods in the API client without requiring external dependencies, setup, superuser privileges, or code modifications.
- The tool supports popular Python libraries such as requests, aiohttp, and urllib3, making it useful for developers who need to trace HTTP requests without using proxies or modifying their code.

## [DoNotPay has to pay $193K for falsely touting untested AI lawyer, FTC says](https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2024/09/startup-behind-worlds-first-robot-lawyer-to-pay-193k-for-false-ads-ftc-says/)

- The FTC fined DoNotPay $193,000 for misleadingly advertising its AI as a "robot lawyer" capable of suing anyone with a click.
- DoNotPay did not test its chatbot or employ lawyers to verify its claims, leading to the fine and a settlement without admitting liability.
- This action is part of the FTC's broader initiative to address deceptive AI claims, highlighting the importance of transparency and verification in AI applications.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41659324)

- DoNotPay has been fined $193K by the FTC for falsely advertising an untested AI lawyer, without attorney verification of AI outputs or legal claims.
- Despite past positive reception, DoNotPay faces criticism for false advertising and other questionable practices, raising ethical concerns.
- The fine is minor compared to DoNotPay's estimated $54 million annual revenue, highlighting the ongoing appeal of affordable legal services amidst a complex and costly legal system.

## [NKRYPT Sculpture](https://www.meme.net.au/nkrypt/)

- NKRYPT is a cryptography installation in Canberra, Australia, featuring eight stainless steel pillars with various ciphers, designed by Stuart Kohlhagen and installed in March 2013 for Canberra's Centenary.
- The installation includes a range of ciphers such as Caesar, semaphore, scytale, binary, and more, inviting the public to decipher them, with some codes celebrating Canberra's Centenary offering prizes.
- Some ciphers have been solved, revealing messages about historical figures and cryptographic methods, while others remain unsolved, adding an ongoing challenge for enthusiasts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41658766)

- The NKRYPT sculpture in Australia has sparked interest due to its column layout resembling the Little Dipper constellation, with potential encoded star spectra.
- Observers note that the Little Dipper is not visible from the southern hemisphere, adding a layer of complexity to the puzzle.
- The sculpture has drawn comparisons to famous cryptographic art like Kryptos and has engaged the puzzle-solving community, including those familiar with DEF CON challenges.

## [WP Engine is banned from WordPress.org](https://wordpress.org/news/2024/09/wp-engine-banned/)

- WP Engine has been banned from WordPress.org due to lacking a trademark license and disrupting communication about their disabling of a WordPress core feature for profit.
- As a result of their legal actions against WordPress.org, WP Engine no longer has free access to WordPress.org resources and must manage their own systems and security.
- WordPress.org advises users seeking a true WordPress experience to use any other host, as WP Engine is not considered part of the WordPress community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41652760)

- WP Engine has been banned from WordPress.org after disabling the news feature in the admin dashboard following a critical post by Matt Mullenweg, WordPress co-founder.
- Mullenweg accused WP Engine of confusing customers and not contributing to WordPress, sparking debates about central control and open-source freedom.
- Critics highlight the irony in Mullenweg's actions, given the existing confusion between WordPress.com and WordPress.org, and some suggest forking WordPress to prevent similar conflicts.

## [Cronexpr, a Rust library to parse and iter crontab expression](https://docs.rs/cronexpr/latest/cronexpr/)

- `cronexpr` is a Rust library designed for parsing and driving crontab expressions, supporting both standard and non-standard syntax extensions.
- The library mandates timezone specification and supports IANA Time Zone Database names, ensuring accurate handling of time zones and DST (Daylight Saving Time).
- Key features include handling edge cases like Vixie’s cron bug, and providing iterators for matching times, but it does not execute commands or support aliases like @hourly or @reboot.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41654723)

- Cronexpr is a Rust library designed for parsing and iterating crontab expressions, with detailed documentation and support for non-standard features.
- The project, initiated by tison, aims to simplify the understanding of complex cron rules and has been compared to other libraries like Cloudflare's Saffron.
- Discussions among users highlighted the importance of features such as "hashed value" support for job staggering, timestamps, and timezones, with alternatives like APScheduler for Python also being mentioned.

## [Wordpress.org bans WP Engine, blocks it from accessing its resources](https://techcrunch.com/2024/09/25/wordpress-org-bans-wp-engine-blocks-it-from-accessing-its-resources/)

- WordPress.org has banned WP Engine from accessing its resources, including themes and plug-ins, due to ongoing legal disputes.
- This ban prevents WP Engine users from installing or updating plug-ins and themes, raising significant security concerns.
- The conflict involves accusations of trademark violations and misuse of control, with both sides engaging in legal actions following public criticism from WordPress co-creator Matt Mullenweg.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41655967)

- WordPress.org has banned WP Engine from accessing its resources, leading to controversy and debate within the community.
- Critics claim Automattic, a competitor, is using WordPress.org's resources unfairly in a business dispute, raising concerns about potential power abuse.
- The situation underscores the complexities of open-source contributions and the responsibilities of large companies, with some suggesting clearer rules for contributions based on company size.

## [Hacking Kia: Remotely Controlling Cars with Just a License Plate](https://samcurry.net/hacking-kia)

- In June 2024, vulnerabilities in Kia vehicles were discovered, allowing remote control over key functions using only a license plate, affecting models from 2014 to 2025.
- Hackers exploited issues in Kia's infrastructure, including the owners.kia.com website and Kia Connect iOS app, to execute internet-to-vehicle commands and obtain personal information.
- The vulnerabilities have since been fixed and were never exploited maliciously, with a detailed timeline showing Kia's response and remediation process.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41658733)

- Kia's omission of interlocks in US vehicles has led to a significant increase in thefts, resulting in a crime wave and multiple lawsuits from various cities.
- Vulnerabilities in Kia's system allow remote control of cars using just a license plate, raising serious security and privacy concerns.
- The situation has sparked discussions on the necessity of connected features, potential solutions like disabling cellular modems, and the broader issue of software quality and regulatory needs in modern cars.

## [Did you personal website help you get hired? Tell about it](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41656015)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41656015)

- Many developers report that personal websites and blogs have significantly contributed to their career opportunities, including job offers, freelancing, and consulting work.
- Blogging about specific technologies or niche topics, such as React.js or multiplayer networking, can attract attention from recruiters and potential clients.
- Personal websites and blogs serve as portfolios that showcase skills, projects, and critical thinking, often coming up in interviews and influencing hiring decisions.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="OpenAI to Become For-Profit Company" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=OpenAI%20to%20Become%20For-Profit%20Company&subheading=Thursday%2C%20September%2026%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
