---
slug: '/2024/09/27'
---

# 2024-09-27

## [I Am Tired of AI](https://www.ontestautomation.com/i-am-tired-of-ai/)

- The author expresses fatigue over the overuse and marketing of AI in software testing and development, noting that many AI solutions are overhyped and fail to deliver superior results.
- Despite acknowledging AI's useful applications, the author emphasizes that AI should be seen as a tool rather than a replacement for skilled human judgment, particularly in automated testing.
- The author criticizes AI-generated conference proposals for lacking unique insights and emotional depth, arguing that human-created content in music, books, and movies is irreplaceable.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41667652)

- The writer expresses distrust in content created in the past two years due to the prevalence of AI, feeling it lacks the human touch and authenticity.
- There is a debate on whether AI has significantly changed content quality or if the internet was already filled with low-quality material, with some blaming monopolistic practices by companies like Google.
- Opinions vary on AI's role, with some suggesting it could combat monopolies and others advocating for focusing on older, pre-AI content to ensure trust and enjoyment.

## [CNN and USA Today have fake websites, I believe Forbes Marketplace runs them](https://larslofgren.com/cnn-usa-today-forbes-marketplace/)

- Forbes Marketplace, an affiliate company on Forbes.com, has agreements with CNN and USA Today to fill their sites with affiliate content.
- CNN Underscored Money and USA Today Blueprint sections are operated by separate entities linked to Forbes Marketplace, not by CNN or USA Today employees.
- These sections have different website structures and privacy policies, and they generate significant search traffic, indicating successful affiliate operations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41670210)

- CNN and USA Today have fake websites, allegedly operated by Forbes Marketplace, as reported by larslofgren.com, sparking discussions on Hacker News.
- The debate centers on media industry practices, where content is often outsourced, resembling social media feeds, and concerns about Google's "Site reputation abuse" policy.
- This situation underscores the evolving nature of media, the impact of SEO (Search Engine Optimization), and the challenges of upholding journalistic integrity in the digital era.

## [TSMC execs allegedly dismissed OpenAI CEO Sam Altman as 'podcasting bro'](https://www.tomshardware.com/tech-industry/tsmc-execs-allegedly-dismissed-openai-ceo-sam-altman-as-podcasting-bro)

- OpenAI CEO Sam Altman proposed a $7 trillion investment for 36 new chipmaking plants during his tour of the Far East, facing skepticism from TSMC executives.
- TSMC execs dismissed Altman’s ambitious plans as unrealistic, though companies like Microsoft, Nvidia, and Apple continue discussions with OpenAI.
- Altman envisions AI becoming as essential as electricity, despite current AI applications not yet proving their full value.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41668824)

- TSMC executives reportedly dismissed OpenAI CEO Sam Altman as a "podcasting bro," highlighting a perceived disconnect between AI hype and the realities of chip manufacturing.
- The discussion underscores the complexities of chip production and energy requirements, areas where TSMC excels, contrasting with the optimistic projections of AI's potential.
- The debate reflects broader concerns about the economic viability and sustainable impact of AI technologies, with varying opinions on their long-term productivity gains.

## [Attacking UNIX Systems via CUPS](https://www.evilsocket.net/2024/09/26/Attacking-UNIX-systems-via-CUPS-Part-I/)

- The writeup discusses a Remote Code Execution (RCE) vulnerability in the CUPS project, specifically targeting the `cups-browsed` component on GNU/Linux systems.
- The author discovered a stack-buffer-overflow using fuzzing and developed an exploit that manipulates the `found_cups_printer` function to execute commands on a fully patched Ubuntu system.
- The post highlights the challenges faced during the responsible disclosure process, including dismissive responses from developers, and emphasizes the need for improved communication and prioritization in the infosec community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41662596)

- A vulnerability in CUPS (Common UNIX Printing System) allows remote unauthenticated attackers to replace printer URLs with malicious ones, leading to arbitrary command execution when a print job is initiated.
- The severity of this vulnerability is debated, with some arguing it is overblown due to limited exposure (300,000 open CUPS instances) and mitigations like loopback-only configurations on many systems.
- The issue highlights broader concerns about the security of the `cups-browsed` daemon and the need for a serious discussion on the future of CUPS in the Linux ecosystem.

## [Fraud, so much fraud](https://www.science.org/content/blog-post/fraud-so-much-fraud)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41672599)

- Fraud in science, including practices like image manipulation in gel results, is a significant issue highlighted by a recent article on Science.org.
- The pressure to publish and lack of stringent oversight contribute to unchecked misconduct, leading to dishonesty and manipulation of data by some researchers.
- Suggested solutions to combat this pervasive problem include better regulation, replication of studies, and stricter penalties for fraud to maintain the integrity of scientific research.

## [Our Android app is frozen in carbonite](https://ia.net/topics/our-android-app-is-frozen-in-carbonite)

- iA Writer's Android app development faced a significant challenge when Google changed its API policy, revoking access to Google Drive.
- Despite efforts to comply with new requirements, including rewriting privacy statements and passing security checks, Google only provided read-only access, which is unsuitable for a writing app.
- The need for a costly annual CASA audit further complicated matters, leading iA Writer to halt new features and updates for its Android app, focusing on other platforms and projects instead.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41664281)

- The Android app from ia.net is facing issues due to stringent security requirements imposed by Google on Drive API scopes, particularly the "fully open" read/write scopes.
- Google has introduced a less sensitive Drive API scope, 'drive.file', which allows apps to read and write only files they own or files selected by the user through a file picker, but the transition process has been unclear and problematic for developers.
- The security measures, including a $720 CASA lab assessment, aim to prevent malware but have been criticized as burdensome and ineffective, leading to frustration among developers.

## [Maggie Smith has died](https://variety.com/2024/legit/news/maggie-smith-dead-harry-potter-1236157839/)

- British actress Maggie Smith, known for her roles in "Downton Abbey" and "Harry Potter," passed away at 89 in London.
- Smith was a two-time Oscar and three-time Emmy winner, with a distinguished career in theater and film, earning numerous awards.
- She was made Dame Commander of the British Empire in 1990 and is survived by her two sons and five grandchildren.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41670429)

- Maggie Smith, renowned for her roles in "Downton Abbey" and "Harry Potter," has passed away, prompting widespread tributes and reflections on her illustrious career.
- Her portrayal of witty and powerful characters, such as Violet Crawley in "Downton Abbey," left a significant impact on audiences and the entertainment industry.
- The news of her death has resonated beyond the tech community, highlighting her influence and the admiration she garnered across various fields.

## [It's hard to write code for computers, but it's harder to write code for humans](https://erikbern.com/2024/09/27/its-hard-to-write-code-for-humans.html)

- Writing code for humans involves creating tools like frameworks, libraries, APIs, SDKs, DSLs, or programming languages that others will use, requiring an understanding of both computer science and human psychology.
- Key strategies include simplifying onboarding, using practical examples, providing clear error messages, minimizing conceptual overload, using familiar terminology, allowing customization, being cautious with defaults, and prioritizing readable code.
- The goal is to make tools intuitive, easy to start with, flexible, and clear, thereby enhancing user experience and reducing complexity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41668304)

- Writing code for humans is more challenging than writing code for computers due to diverse learning styles and preferences.
- Effective tutorials should balance core concepts and practical examples, considering cultural differences and individual learning needs.
- Good API design must cater to both deep understanding and usability for occasional users, reflecting the ongoing debate on the best approach to learning and teaching code.

## [Stem cells reverse woman’s diabetes](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-024-03129-3)

- A 25-year-old woman with type 1 diabetes became the first person to produce her own insulin after a stem cell transplant, remaining insulin-free for over a year.
- The stem cells were reprogrammed from her own body and injected into her abdominal muscles, leading to stable blood glucose levels within two-and-a-half months.
- This pioneering trial, led by Deng Hongkui from Peking University, marks a significant advancement in diabetes treatment, with further trials planned to replicate the results.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41664199)

- A woman with Type 1 diabetes experienced a reversal of her condition through stem cell therapy while on immunosuppressants for a prior liver transplant.
- This breakthrough is significant for Type 1 diabetes, an autoimmune disorder, and raises hopes for future treatments despite concerns about long-term effects and the need for immunosuppressants.
- The success of stem cell therapy in this case also suggests potential applications in other areas, such as HIV treatment.

## [End of an era: Landsat 7 mission takes final images](https://www.usgs.gov/news/national-news-release/end-era-historic-landsat-7-mission-takes-final-images)

- Landsat 7, launched in 1999 by USGS and NASA, has completed its mission after 25 years, capturing over 3.3 million images and 132,000 orbits.
- Despite a Scan Line Corrector failure in 2003, the satellite continued to provide valuable Earth observation data, contributing to over 5,000 scientific publications and 1,414 policy documents.
- The mission's conclusion makes way for Landsat Next, scheduled for launch in late 2030/early 2031, which promises enhanced capabilities for detailed and frequent Earth monitoring.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41663465)

- Landsat 7, a satellite known for its significant contributions to earth observation, has captured its final images, marking the end of an era.
- Despite a broken scan line corrector, Landsat 7 provided valuable data for years, demonstrating the robustness and longevity of government-owned space missions.
- The Landsat program continues with Landsat 8 and 9, ensuring ongoing contributions to earth observation and maintaining the legacy of providing freely accessible imagery.

## [Sony, Ubisoft scandals lead to California ban on deceptive digital goods sales](https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2024/09/sony-ubisoft-scandals-prompt-calif-ban-on-deceptive-sales-of-digital-goods/)

- California has enacted AB 2426, the first law to ban deceptive sales of "disappearing media," requiring clear disclosure when digital goods are temporary licenses rather than outright purchases.
- The law, signed by Governor Gavin Newsom and sponsored by Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin, aims to protect consumers from unexpectedly losing access to digital content like books, movies, and video games.
- Prompted by incidents with Ubisoft and Sony, the law mandates clear labeling and prohibits hiding disclosures in terms of service, with exceptions for goods advertised as licenses and subscription services.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41665593)

- California has enacted a law banning deceptive digital goods sales, targeting misleading terms like "buy" unless permanent access is provided.
- The law mandates clear language to differentiate between purchasing and licensing digital goods, aiming to prevent consumer confusion.
- This legislation is considered a win for digital consumer rights, promoting transparency and honesty in digital transactions.

## [Why the U.S. can't build icebreaking ships](https://www.construction-physics.com/p/why-the-us-cant-build-icebreaking)

- The U.S. has only two operational icebreakers, the Polar Star and Healy, and hasn't built a new heavy icebreaker since 1976, despite significant interests in polar regions.
- The Polar Security Cutter program, initiated in 2013 to build new icebreakers, faces delays and cost overruns, with the first ship now expected by 2029 at a cost of $1.7-1.9 billion per ship.
- U.S. shipyards lack experience in building icebreakers, and protectionist laws requiring domestic construction hinder the potential for more efficient and cost-effective foreign-built ships.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41662831)

- The U.S. faces challenges in building icebreaking ships due to uncompetitive shipbuilders and potentially overly ambitious government requirements.
- High costs and low production rates have left the U.S. shipbuilding industry struggling, similar to Canada, which also lacks recent experience in building specialized icebreakers.
- Collaborating with countries like Finland, which have expertise in icebreaker construction, could help, but protectionist laws like the Jones Act complicate purchasing foreign-built ships.

## [Small3dlib: Public domain 3D software rasterizer](https://codeberg.org/drummyfish/small3dlib)

- "small3dlib" is a public domain 3D software rasterizer designed for resource-limited computers, using only 32-bit integer math and no dependencies, making it extremely portable.
- It offers various features like perspective correction, different drawing strategies, and flexibility in pixel rendering, but lacks advanced features like shaders, collision detection, and antialiasing.
- The library is ideal for quick 3D projects without the complexity of OpenGL or Vulkan, and is highly customizable, though it does not prioritize backward compatibility.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41665569)

- Small3dlib is a public domain 3D software rasterizer available on Codeberg, created by a user named drummyfish.
- The creator of Small3dlib has controversial and offensive views, including being an open advocate for pedophilia and "race realism," which has sparked significant backlash and discussion.
- Despite the technical merits of the software, the creator's personal beliefs and statements have led to a broader debate about the separation of art (or code) from the artist and the ethical implications of using such software.

## [X (Twitter) blocks links to hacked JD Vance dossier](https://www.theverge.com/2024/9/26/24255298/elon-musk-x-blocks-jd-vance-dossier)

- Twitter, now rebranded as X, has blocked links to a newsletter containing a hacked document allegedly from the Trump campaign about JD Vance, citing a violation of rules on posting unredacted private information.
- Journalist Ken Klippenstein, who published the newsletter, has been suspended, and attempts to share his newsletter on X resulted in error messages.
- X did not provide a detailed explanation for the link ban, though it aligns with its revised 2020 policy against posting hacked materials.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41662702)

- X (formerly Twitter) blocked links to a hacked JD Vance dossier, but the block could be bypassed by adding a query parameter to the URL.
- Twitter later required users to delete posts containing these links, though the block was poorly implemented and easily circumvented.
- The incident has sparked debates about free speech, privacy, and the influence of Elon Musk on Twitter's inconsistent blocking policies.

## [The best $4 ever spent](https://papanotes.com/the-best-4-ever-spent)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41671145)

- The post highlights that children often find joy in simple, inexpensive activities rather than costly, elaborate experiences.
- Multiple anecdotes from parents emphasize that kids value quality time and engagement over material or extravagant outings.
- The discussion underscores the importance of being present and engaged with children, suggesting that these moments create lasting, cherished memories.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="I Am Tired of AI" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=I%20Am%20Tired%20of%20AI&subheading=Friday%2C%20September%2027%2C%202024%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
