---
slug: '/2023/10/02'
---

# 2023-10-02

## [Tire dust makes up the majority of ocean microplastics](https://www.thedrive.com/news/tire-dust-makes-up-the-majority-of-ocean-microplastics-study-finds)

- A recent study revealed that the majority of microplastics in the ocean originate from tire dust, which can harm marine life and potentially human health.
- The study also found that emissions from tire dust are even higher in electric vehicles (EVs) due to their weight and high torque.
- Regulators are addressing this problem by implementing standards for tire and brake emissions, while manufacturers research alternative tire compositions and methods to capture particulate output.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37726539)

- The conversation discusses multiple topics related to transportation's environmental impact, emphasizing tire dust as a significant source of microplastics in the ocean and the detrimental effects of car-based conveyance on air and surface pollution.
- It explores the possibility and advantages of living without private vehicles in suburban areas, questions the sustainability of suburban infrastructure, and examines the effect of different energy sources, especially electric vehicles (EVs), on the environment.
- A unique aspect of discussion includes possibly using dandelions as a sustainable source of rubber for tire production, the debate around cars vs public transit, weight-based taxes, and concerns about fuel-inefficient vehicles.

## [Bing ChatGPT image jailbreak](https://twitter.com/literallydenis/status/1708283962399846459)

- The author has managed to interpret a captcha using Bing by modifying the visual prompts.
- They have included screenshots in their post to display Bing's rendering of the captcha.
- This presents an interesting use case for Bing's capability to understand and interpret captcha images.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37729160)

- The dialogue covers an array of themes linked to AI language models, encompassing their constraints, potential hazards, and proficiency in obeying commands.
- Concepts such as jailbreaking LLMs (Large Language Models), manipulating them via social engineering, and the difficulty in aligning LLMs to desired behaviors are discussed.
- Ethical issues, privacy concerns, calls for increased transparency and security measures, and parallels drawn to science fiction are also part of the discussion, shedding light on the complexities and risks tied to AI language models.

## [Goodbye integers, hello UUIDv7](https://buildkite.com/blog/goodbye-integers-hello-uuids)

- Buildkite has released an update introducing a new product, namely Login Blog Support, and key improvements, with the incorporation of UUIDv7 for data storage as their primary key.
- UUIDv7, a unique identifier system, is being used due to its beneficial attributes from both sequential and UUID keys. It encodes a timestamp in the identifier which improves database performance, eliminating the need for coordinated identifier generation and simplifying application logic.
- The company is considering extending its improvement by sharding their largest Postgres database and potentially using UUIDv8 in the future, despite the marginal increase in storage due to its overall benefits.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37733036)

- The discussions concentrate on the use of UUIDs (Universally Unique Identifiers) in distributed systems, with varying opinions on their security and practicality, and suggestions for alternatives like Cuid2 and UUIDv4.
- The impact of random IDs on system performance, database sharding, and the relationship between data locality and query efficiency also became a topic of conversation, indicating the complexity of designing and optimizing distributed systems.
- Lastly, the conversation explores different versions of UUIDs, like UUIDv7, ULIDs, and KSUIDs, their benefits and limitations, as well as the use of unique IDs in GIS (Geographic Information System) applications, underscoring the need for shorter ID representations.

## [Influxdb made the switch from Go to Rust](https://old.reddit.com/r/rust/comments/16v13l5/influxdb_officially_made_the_switch_from_go_rust/)

- InfluxDB, an open-source time series database, has converted nearly all of its code (99.5%) from Go to Rust due to its greater performance, better error handling, concurrency, and improved integration with other open-source applications.
- The rewrite, which took about 3 years, aimed to meet requirements such as unlimited cardinality, enhanced analytics queries, and compatibility with SQL and larger ecosystems.
- The transition to Rust has resulted in significant performance improvements in the new version of InfluxDB in their cloud environment, with discussions also covering the development process, the use of DataFusion query engine and comparisons with TimescaleDB and ClickHouse.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37725778)

- InfluxDB, a time-series database, has begun the transition from the Go programming language to Rust, sparking user interest and debates on the benefits of rewriting software.
- Some users have shifted to alternative databases like TimescaleDB and ClickHouse due to scaling problems with InfluxDB, while others praise the benefits of TimescaleDB, like HA, backups, and management.
- Despite the development of InfluxDB v3, InfluxDB v1 continues its wide usage because of its simplicity and compatibility. The decision to switch to Rust was motivated by potential performance enhancements and the Rust compiler, meeting both skepticism and optimism among developers and InfluxData team respectively.

## [Learn and Test DMARC](https://www.learndmarc.com)

- The "Learn and Test DMARC" console gives a visual depiction of email server communications and educates users on SPF (Sender Policy Framework), DKIM (DomainKeys Identified Mail), and DMARC (Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting, and Conformance).
- Users can start by sending an email to an allocated address and have options to spoof emails, load random examples, test DMARC knowledge, and paste email headers.
- The platform guarantees that it uses the user's email solely for DMARC setup checking and doesn't store any user data.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37729964)

- The forum discussion emphasizes both the strengths and weaknesses of DMARC in averting email spoofing, with participants suggesting that BIMI could boost security and grant visual logos for trustworthy correspondence.
- SPF and DKIM are highlighted as susceptible to email spoofing, and DMARC is reliant on their successful authentication, leading to a dialogue on risk management and improvements in email authentication industry standards.
- While the conversation included other topics like Apple's "Hide My Email" service, email errors, outdated JavaScript code, and the relevance of protocols like TLS and SSL, the focus was prominently on enhancing email security against spoofing.

## [12,000-year-old realistic human statue was unearthed](https://arkeonews.net/new-discoveries-in-gobeklitepe-and-karahantepe-a-human-sculpture-with-a-realistic-facial-expression-found-in-karahantepe/)

- New findings have been revealed at the Göbeklitepe and Karahantepe historic sites in Turkey, offering additional insights into prehistoric art and ancient settlements.
- At Göbeklitepe, a painted wild boar statue - thought to be the first painted sculpture from its era - was discovered.
- In Karahantepe, a lifelike human statue with a realistic expression has been unearthed, mirroring a relief discovered in a prior excavation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37729163)

- Archaeologists discovered a 12,000-year-old statue at Göbekli Tepe in Turkey, which challenges the conventional understanding of the beginning of human civilization.
- The discovery indicates that intricate artwork may have existed earlier than presently believed, prompting discussions about the roots of human civilization.
- Other recent discoveries at the site, like stone megaliths and additional statues, give a deeper view into ancient art and culture, sparking debates on the definition of prehistory and the precision of dating methods.

## [Fine, I'll run a regression analysis but it won't make you happy](https://www.natesilver.net/p/fine-ill-run-a-regression-analysis)

- The author believes that simplified analyses, which focus on significant general truths, hold more sway in public debates.
- The discussion revolves around the correlation between state partisanship, COVID-19 vaccination rates, and death rates.
- The analysis indicates that age and vaccination rates account for a large part of the discrepancy in COVID-19 death rates among different states.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37728642)

- The discussions encompassed a spectrum of topics pertaining to the COVID-19 pandemic, such as the effectivity of protection measures, hospital capacity, policy impacts, anxiety induced by the pandemic, and its potential impact on animal populations.
- The discourse highlighted contrasting views and opinions, which included skepticism and underestimation of certain matters, emphasizing the necessity for reliable data, the difficulty of openly discussing certain topics, and advocating more specific research and healthcare investment.
- It underlines the importance of maintaining a clear understanding and open dialogue about COVID-19's myriad impacts on society, particularly in terms of healthcare and policy responses.

## [Mozilla's midlife crisis has taken it from pioneer to Google's weird neighbor](https://www.theregister.com/2023/09/29/mozilla_asleep_at_wheel/)

- Mozilla, known for its fully open-source Firefox browser and significant security research, is being criticized for lack of innovation and missed opportunities.
- The organization has reportedly dropped some valuable technologies and failed to leverage others, prompting suggestions it should cater more to power users and differentiate from competitors such as Chrome.
- The author encourages Mozilla to revitalize its overlooked messaging client Thunderbird and reminisces on influential past inventions like the Rust programming language and the original Netscape web browser.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37724538)

- The discussions are centered around various issues concerning Mozilla, Firefox, and the broader tech industry, including Mozilla's competition with Google Chrome and concerns about its decreasing market share.
- There's a debate over various web browsers' merits, discussions about executive salaries' impact on organizations, and speculation about Mozilla's role in Rust and Thunderbird.
- Conversations also include comparisons between programming languages like Rust and Go, criticisms on Google for its anticompetitive practices, and discussions on Firefox's usability, performance, and ad-blocking capabilities versus Chrome.

## [DALL-E 3 is now publicly available inside Bing](https://www.bing.com/images/create/?ref=hn)

- The Bildersuche Image Creator, empowered by DALL·E, can generate images based on textual input using artificial intelligence (AI) technology.
- The tool is available on Microsoft's Bing platform, and by using it, users agree to terms and conditions coming along with Microsoft's Rewards and the Bing Image Creator.
- Users of the tool will receive emails concerning Microsoft Rewards and notifications about the Bing Image Creator.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37725498)

- The discourse focuses on DALL-E 3, an image generation model now available on Bing, with some debates surrounding its use over Discord and potential scalability and environmental impact issues.
- Users reveal preferences for Bing and ChatGPT and question the strategies and ownership of Microsoft in OpenAI, while also considering content safety policies.
- Elements of AI translation systems, image generation capabilities, and the differences between Bing Chat and ChatGPT were also part of the discussion.

## [Pulsars, not dark matter, explain the Milky Way’s antimatter](https://bigthink.com/starts-with-a-bang/pulsars-dark-matter-milky-way-antimatter/)

- NASA's Fermi Satellite discovered that the abundance of antimatter particles from the center of the Milky Way is likely due to pulsars, not dark matter as previously theorized.
- Pulsars, which generate matter-antimatter pairs through their relativistic jets and swiftly moving material, challenge the former belief about dark matter being the source of antimatter.
- The study utilized the most up-to-date, high-resolution, high-energy cosmic map produced by the Fermi Satellite, indicating the need for further investigations to comprehend the elusive nature of dark matter.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37725530)

- The central discussion focuses on dark matter and its potential role in explaining various astronomical phenomena, indicating the complexity and diversity of scientific theories.
- Suggestions emerge that pulsars may account for antimatter in the Milky Way, revealing a fresh perspective regarding the nature and origin of antimatter.
- The dialog emphasizes the limitations of existing models and the necessity for additional research on dark matter, also touching on the speed of light, alternative theories, and the significance of trusting established scientific theories.

## [Teens inundated with phone prompts day and night, research finds](https://www.nbcnews.com/health/health-news/teens-inundated-phone-prompts-day-night-research-finds-rcna108044)

- Common Sense Media’s report expresses concern over the high volume of notifications received by children and teenagers daily, including during school time and at night.
- The study highlighted that half of the aged group of 11 to 17 years get a minimum of 237 notifications per day, with some even receiving up to 5,000 within a 24-hour time frame.
- The report prompts the need for schools and parents to help manage children's screen time and phone use, with the constant flow of notifications potentially affecting cognitive abilities, memory, and attention span.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37728990)

- The main concern is the inconvenience caused by the excessive and irrelevant notifications from various apps on smartphones, and users are frustrated about the lack of control and customization options.
- There is a demand for stricter regulations for app developers and using third-party apps to filter unwanted notifications.
- Discussions also highlight the challenge in managing notifications on children's smartphones and potential negative effects on mental health due to excessive technology use.

## [Never say no, but rarely say yes (2011)](https://longform.asmartbear.com/say-yes/)

- The author stresses the importance of avoiding distractions and concentrating on primary goals and objectives.
- Despite this, they underscore the significance of being receptive to new opportunities and ideas.
- They share personal experiences of cautiously qualifying their approvals to ascertain alignment with their objectives, suggesting setting conditions for accepting propositions that can positively transform your business.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37724737)

- The article advises deploying a strategy of seldomly saying yes to potential clients and maintaining transparency about job limitations.
- It cautions against placing high price tags on jobs where one lacks experience or interest, as this can result in dissatisfied clients.
- Commenters suggest that accepting higher-paying, undesirable tasks can remedy time-constraints, and they reference a separate article on effective negotiation strategies for balancing client satisfaction.

## [WFH significantly increased workforce participation from those with disabilities](https://thehill.com/opinion/technology/4228100-does-working-from-home-damage-productivity-just-look-at-the-data/)

- The article delves into the effects of remote work on productivity, stating that hybrid work models might yield slight productivity improvements, while fully remote work might have a slightly adverse effect unless properly managed.
- However, the work-from-home model can notably cut overhead costs for companies, thus enhancing profitability.
- Multiple studies and data are highlighted in the article supporting the positive influence of remote work on productivity and cost savings.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37727129)

- Working from home (WFH) has yielded employment opportunities for individuals with disabilities, re-enabling them to join the workforce again.
- There are debates over the impact and relevance of WFH on commercial real estate, along with a proposal to repurpose it into housing if tech workers vacate cities.
- Concerns have been raised about biased practices resulting from the Social Security Administration's guidelines and online job applications, which often ask for personal information despite promising it won't be used for discrimination.

## [Could EU force hardware manufacturers to make working drivers for Linux?](https://old.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/16wv53f/could_the_eu_force_hardware_manufacturers_to_make/)

- The European Union (EU) is considering implementing regulations that will require hardware manufacturers to create fully functional drivers for Linux, a popular open-source operating system.
- Opinions vary on how best to ensure driver availability for Linux, ranging from legislative mandates, to open sourcing drivers, to offering tax breaks as incentives.
- Debates also revolve around challenges related to open-source hardware, the requirement for open documentation, repairability, and the balance between privacy, cost, market impact, and innovation. Opinions are mixed on the need for EU intervention in this matter.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37728016)

- The discourse centres on the possibility of enforcing regulations to separate software and hardware companies in the tech sector.
- The goal of such regulations is to foster competition while preventing vendor lock-in, although concerns have been raised about how these measures would impact user experience and innovation.
- Aspects of the debate include open standards, tech giants like Apple and Microsoft, device compatibility, hardware-software integration, and government involvement. Other points include the right to repair and the implications of imposing regulations on hardware manufacturers.

## [MyPowerbank hacks Santander bikes so London's homeless can charge their phones](https://www.dezeen.com/2023/09/29/mypowerbank-hacks-santander-bikes-homeless-charge-phones/)

- Designer Luke Talbot has developed MyPowerbank, a portable phone charger meant for homeless people. It can be attached to rental bikes and powered by pedaling backwards.
- MyPowerbank fits on Transport for London's Santander bicycles' chains. The energy generated during pedaling is stored in its batteries, with 25 minutes of pedaling providing a full phone charge.
- Talbot aims to finalize the design for production, intending to partner with a charity or NGO to distribute the chargers among homeless, who often lack access to reliable charging resources.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37725261)

- MyPowerbank, a project in London, has modified Santander bikes to enable homeless individuals to charge their phones.
- The initiative has sparked a debate regarding its practicability and efficiency, highlighting the necessity for accessible phone charging options for the homeless.
- The discussion emphasized the broader societal implications of homelessness and the struggles faced by low-income individuals.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Tire dust makes up the majority of ocean microplastics" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Tire%20dust%20makes%20up%20the%20majority%20of%20ocean%20microplastics&subheading=Monday%2C%20October%202%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
