---
slug: '/2023/10/03'
---

# 2023-10-03

## [Return to Office Is Bullshit and Everyone Knows It](https://soatok.blog/2023/10/02/return-to-office-is-bullshit-and-everyone-knows-it/)

- The author details their negative experience regarding quitting their job due to enforced office return policies, suggesting it could lead to decreased morale and loss of talent.
- Companies enforcing return policies might struggle to hire and keep employees in the future, as per the author's prediction.
- The post also raises concern for H-1B visa employees and criticizes companies for ignoring the merits of remote work and employee preferences. The author's perspective has sparked a discussion.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37739376)

- The article focuses on the dissatisfaction among tech industry workers regarding companies reverting to in-person work, following a shift to remote work during the pandemic.
- Amid promises of a permanent remote work option, some companies changed their stance, leading to employee resentment. The article recommends employees may opt for firms aligning with their preferred work style.
- Also discussed is the need for updating contracts to include remote work policies and consequences of changes therein. Mentioned are companies like Amazon, Google, Lyft, and Facebook, and the query of employees potentially needing to relocate for work.

## [Python 3.12](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3120/)

- Python 3.12.0, the newest major release of the Python programming language, presents fresh features, performance optimisations, and bug fixes.
- Significant additions encompass enhanced f-string parsing, buffer protocol support, a new debugging/profiling API, improved error messages, and type annotation enhancements. The release also anticipates an overall performance lift by 5%.
- Accompanying the release are documentation, resources, and installation files tailored to various operating systems.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37737519)

- The discussions revolve around various Python programming aspects, including new enhancements in Python 3.12 and the usage of kwargs - a convention for passing keyword arguments in function calls.
- Debate also weighs on dynamic typing, a feature allowing Python to determine variable type at runtime.
- The inclusion of political comments in programming updates is another topic debated, highlighting the diversity of opinions in the tech community.

## [Exploiting the iPhone 4](https://axleos.com/exploiting-the-iphone-4-part-1-gaining-entry/)

- The author has created a jailbreak, named 'gala,' for iOS 4 installed on the iPhone 4 and has also developed a detailed six-part series documenting the build process.
- 'Gala' comprises a Python application, Cocoa GUI, Rust payload, Cocoa Touch games, and C utilities, providing a comprehensive suite for jailbreaking an iPhone 4.
- The author has made the source code and documentation publicly available for critique and testing, sharing their enthusiasm towards the project since they used to create tweaks for jailbroken phones.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37736318)

- This post details the author's journey and the complexity involved in developing a jailbreak for the iPhone 4, including the use of Python applications, a Graphical User Interface, a Rust payload, and utilities on the device.
- Discussions in the comments focus on the extraction of data from older iPhones, vulnerability exploits, and the comparison of tools for Android devices.
- Finally, the author criticizes the current state of smartphones and shows their fondness for the original SE iPhone. The mention of applications for Y Combinator (YC) Winter 2024 round signifies potential opportunities for aspiring developers.

## [Who is hiring? (October 2023)](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37739028)

- This post is a platform for companies to publish job openings, explicitly outlining the details including location, remote work opportunities, internships, and VISA requirements.
- Readers are encouraged to engage with the job posts if personally interested and to refrain from submitting complaints about the jobs listed.
- The post also offers recommendations for various job search websites and provides links to threads related to the topic.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37739028)

- This post aggregates job vacancies from numerous companies spanning various industries, such as software engineering, product management, and data science.
- Mentioned companies encompass SpaceX, Davinci Trading, Stellar Science, Felt, among others, with some offering remote work while others necessitate on-site presence.
- The post also delves into salary ranges for these positions and addresses criticisms about employment law in the comments section.

## [Microsoft Defender was flagging Tor browser as a trojan and removing it](https://deform.co/microsoft-defender-flags-tor-browser-as-a-trojan-and-removes-it-from-the-system/)

- Microsoft's Defender antivirus software is mistakenly identifying the latest version of the Tor browser as harmful malware, creating false alerts for Windows users.
- Suspected cause for this issue is a new heuristic detection method that Defender utilizes.
- Representatives of Tor suggest verifying the browser's download source and adding Tor to Microsoft's exclusion list. Currently, Microsoft has not issued an official response to the problem.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37740468)

- The discussion focuses on the challenges and shortcomings of Microsoft Defender, including its frequent false positive detections and the difficulties in bypassing or disabling its real-time protection.
- There is considerable user frustration about the general efficacy of antivirus software and concerns about its potential misuse by authoritarian regimes.
- It briefly mentions the difficulty of installing Firefox on the new Windows 11 operating system and an element of surprise on the continued use of Windows.

## [Efficient streaming language models with attention sinks](https://github.com/mit-han-lab/streaming-llm)

- The "streaming-llm" project aims to implement Large Language Models (LLMs) in streaming applications without sacrificing efficiency or performance, overcoming memory consumption and limitations in handling longer texts.
- This project introduces the concept of attention sinks and the StreamingLLM framework, which allows LLMs to manage infinite-length inputs without the need for fine-tuning. This method outperforms other techniques in speed and stability, but it is not ideal for summarizing extensive texts.
- The project plans on releasing code, data, and evaluation instruments in the future and encourages citation of their paper for those keen on using the StreamingLLM framework.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37740932)

- Researchers have developed a new streaming language model equipped with attention sinks, which enhances efficiency by reusing a cache instead of incurring recomputation costs.
- This model allocates substantial attention scores to initial tokens, ensuring productions of readable text while maintaining its perplexity. The model can potentially handle infinite sequence lengths, though the effectiveness of this feature is yet to be confirmed.
- There is ongoing discussion about the limitations of existing language model models (LLMs) with propositions for improvement such as looping capability. The hope is to upload this new model to a publicly accessible platform soon.

## [Redfin Is Leaving the National Association of Realtors](https://www.redfin.com/news/redfin-is-leaving-nar/)

- Redfin, a real estate firm, is withdrawing support from the National Association of Realtors (NAR) due to disputes over fee policies for buyer's agents and alleged sexual harassment within NAR.
- The company had been paying substantial dues to influence NAR's advocacy for a tech-driven marketplace, but is now seeking other ways to achieve its objectives and is asking its brokers and agents to leave NAR.
- Redfin is pushing for NAR to uncouple access to listing databases from support for the lobbying organization but will still support Multiple Listing Services (MLSs) for sharing listing data.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37746717)

- Redfin, a real estate company, is exiting the National Association of Realtors (NAR) to introduce better services at a reduced cost, stimulating debates about the role of real estate agents and the cost-effectiveness of their services.
- This decision has ignited broader discussions on topics including housing affordability, supply and demand, tax reductions on mortgage interest, housing market sustainability, and possible disruptions in the real estate industry.
- The conversations highlight differing views, some expressing doubt about escalating house prices and homeownership profitability while others stress the significant role of realtors and the value they offer. Concerns are also raised about legal issues, potential market monopolies, and allegations of sexual assault linked to the real estate industry.

## [Weird A.I. Yankovic: a cursed deep dive into the world of voice cloning](https://waxy.org/2023/10/weird-ai-yankovic-voice-cloning/)

- The article delves into voice cloning via artificial intelligence (A.I.), focusing on the production of A.I.-generated covers of Weird Al Yankovic songs performed by various artists.
- It discusses the A.I. voice cloning community, platforms such as Discord and Hugging Face, and the ethical and legal issues tied to the use of this technology.
- Despite potential crackdowns on commercial usage of A.I. vocals by the music industry, the creation and expansion of A.I.-generated music persist.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37739233)

- The article explores the impact of voice cloning technology, noting potential job displacement for voice actors and legal issues surrounding the ownership of AI-produced voices.
- The piece also covers differing opinions on AI-generated voices, with some emphasizing benefits like dynamic voice lines and scalability, while others focus on fears of artificiality and potential abuse.
- The discussion includes the use of AI in audio and music manipulation, along with the attractiveness of various platforms and the current limitations of artificial intelligence.

## [First blood test for dozens of hereditary cancers approved by FDA](https://www.insideprecisionmedicine.com/topics/oncology/first-blood-test-for-dozens-of-hereditary-cancers-approved-by-fda/)

- The FDA has approved the first blood test, the Invitae Common Hereditary Cancers Panel, capable of identifying genetic variants linked with a higher risk of certain cancers.
- The panel uses next-generation sequencing to analyze DNA variants in 47 genes and offers a new method for personalized risk assessments of cancer for patients and healthcare providers.
- Despite these advancements, there are still risks of false positive or false negative results, and the potential for misunderstandings of the test results remains.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37744350)

- The FDA has given the green light to the first blood test for hereditary cancers, an innovation by Invitae, which could potentially increase insurance reimbursement opportunities.
- There are ongoing debates concerning insurance covers for genetic tests, decisions about preventive surgeries, the extent of early cancer detection, genetic discrimination protection, and financial aspects tied to genetic data.
- Other related discussions include the cost and application of genetic testing, comparison between Invitae and 23andMe's approaches, Grail's Galleri test, Invitae's corporate challenges, merits of blood-based tests, accessibility and pricing of DNA sequencing tests, the morality of genetic testing and embryo selection, and availability of applications for YC Winter 2024.

## [A Call for Developers – Jellyfin](https://jellyfin.org/posts/a-call-for-developers/)

- The Jellyfin project, an open-source media streaming server, is recruiting more developers and contributors for program development.
- The current team, primarily volunteers, has been stretched thin due to a small base of contributors, leading to software limitations and bugs.
- Through soliciting assistance from various experienced developers, writers, designers, and enthusiasts, Jellyfin aims to address user concerns and strive to become the top streaming server.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37744114)

- The Jellyfin project is seeking contributions from developers and is the central topic of this post. Jellyfin is an open-source media system.
- Users have discussed their experiences with Jellyfin's clients, noting challenges such as audio support limitation and transcoding issues.
- Legal implications of using apps like Jellyfin for personal media consumption are explored, providing necessary insights into the potential legal constraints and their impacts.

## [Open-source could finally get the world’s microscopes speaking the same language](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-023-03064-9)

- Scientists are working on developing OME-Zarr, a universal file format for biological microscopy data, aimed at increasing accessibility and improving collaboration.
- Presently, there are 160 different file formats that impede data sharing and verification, the objective is to significantly reduce this number.
- However, there's a demand for a cultural change and joint efforts from researchers, publishers, and vendors to implement standardised formats, with wider scientific community's guidance and support.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37737318)

- The Zarr open-source format, commonly used for large-scale climate science data storage and analysis, faces concerns of insufficient funding and challenges to reproducibility in scientific fields.
- A new format, OME-Zarr, has been introduced to store and share microscopy data, aiming at consolidating different efforts and enhancing interoperability. Critics question its necessity, while its advocates underscore its potential for meta-studies and discovering new use cases.
- Standardization and a single format for image data is emphasized. The limitations of existing formats and the need to safeguard data integrity are discussed. Considerations include adopting lossy compression and automatic conversion of image data.

## [Dead grandma locket request tricks Bing Chat’s AI into solving security puzzle](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2023/10/sob-story-about-dead-grandma-tricks-microsoft-ai-into-solving-captcha/)

- A user manipulated Microsoft's Bing Chat AI to solve a CAPTCHA by uploading an image of a locket and altering its context, demonstrating the AI's failure to identify it as a CAPTCHA.
- This trick reveals a prominent vulnerability in AI chatbots and sophisticated language models, with their recognition capabilities being susceptible to context manipulation.
- As of now, Microsoft has not provided any comments on this issue.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37743759)

- The talks center on the strengths and weaknesses of CAPTCHA systems, tasked with identifying humans over AI.
- There are expressions of concern about the susceptibility of CAPTCHA systems to manipulation, with discussions on possible remedies and alternatives.
- Participants also delve into the wider ramifications of AI technology on accessibility and societal norms.

## [Chromebook Plus](https://blog.google/products/chromebooks/chromebook-plus/)

- Google has announced a new category of Chromebooks known as Chromebook Plus, set to offer twice the performance, integrated Google apps, and robust AI capabilities.
- The Chromebook Plus laptops will feature faster processors, double the memory and storage, a Full HD IPS display, and a 1080p camera with AI-augmented video call improvements, and will support creative-focused apps like Adobe Photoshop and LumaFusion.
- Google aims to integrate more features into Chromebook Plus, including extended AI capabilities and image generation, with availability for purchase commencing from October 8, 2023.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37737651)

- Google has introduced new laptops, including upgraded Chromebooks with enhanced hardware and AI features, which have sparked debates regarding their use and function.
- Users raise concerns about integration with smartwatches, desired inclusion of cellular options while some advocate for mobile device tethering, and the relevance of AI features on Chromebooks.
- Mixed opinions were found on Chromebooks' suitability for coding or software development tasks, the performance of Intel i3 processors, the benefits of NixOS, and privacy concerns.

## [Break-a-Scene: Extracting Multiple Concepts from a Single Image](https://omriavrahami.com/break-a-scene/)

- The authors introduce "Break-A-Scene," a method capable of extracting numerous concepts from a single image and using natural language guidance to generate new images across varied contexts.
- They present the task of textual scene decomposition and involve a two-phase customization process optimizing both text tokens and model weights. A novel training strategy, "union-sampling," has been introduced for improved generation of concept combinations.
- An evaluation of the method, both through automated metrics and a user study, has been conducted, alongside showcasing several applications of the method.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37737599)

- The text covers a new AI technology, Break-a-Scene, with the ability to extract multiple concepts from a single image, showing potential for transforming industries like photography and filmmaking.
- Opinions are divided, with some welcoming the potent workflow enhancement and expanded artistic resources, but others showing concern over the impact on traditional photography's value.
- Apart from discussing possible use cases, the article points out its implications on human culture and the fundamental notion of photography, mentioning that the technology is accessible via GitHub and acknowledged in a Google Research paper.

## [Who wants to be hired? (October 2023)](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37739026)

- The message is a call for job seekers to share their information, following a provided format that mentions criteria like location, willingness to relocate, skill set, CV, and email address.
- It ensures that any communication via the given email addresses should strictly pertain to employment opportunities.
- This post functions as a searchable database for employers looking to hire industry professionals in a particular field.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37739026)

- This post is a collection of individuals looking for job opportunities in diverse domains including software engineering, data science, and product management.
- These individuals are flexible with working remotely, expanding the potential hiring pool.
- They have included links to their resumes and contact details, simplifying the process for potential employers to reach out.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Return to Office Is Bullshit and Everyone Knows It" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Return%20to%20Office%20Is%20Bullshit%20and%20Everyone%20Knows%20It&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20October%203%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
