---
slug: '/2023/10/04'
---

# 2023-10-04

## [Running Stable Diffusion XL 1.0 in 298MB of RAM](https://github.com/vitoplantamura/OnnxStream/tree/846da873570a737b49154e8f835704264864b0fe)

- The repository "vitoplantamura/OnnxStream" features an open-source inference library, OnnxStream, designed to limit memory usage during machine learning model execution.
- OnnxStream enables the execution of Stable Diffusion models on devices with limited RAM, like a Raspberry Pi Zero 2, through dynamic and static quantization, an optimization method yielding lower memory usage than OnnxRuntime.
- The repository provides example implementations, performance benchmarks, and detailed features of the Stable Diffusion tool, along with credit to original projects, version info, resource details, and associated programming languages.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37752632)

- The post focuses on the performance of the Stable Diffusion XL 1.0 software, specifically highlighting the memory usage and speed trade-off.
- Users' experiences and recommendations regarding the software, particularly its use for image generation, are extensively discussed, with certain concerns about its memory usage, inference time, and hardware requirements.
- The discussion also reveals issues related to the regulation of such emerging technologies and differentiates between theft and piracy, alongside news about the availability of SD models and the ONNX streaming component.

## [Debunking NIST's calculation of the Kyber-512 security level](https://blog.cr.yp.to/20231003-countcorrectly.html)

- The post raises concerns about the allegedly inaccurate calculations and lack of transparency in the evaluation of the Kyber-512 cryptosystem by NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology).
- NIST's review process is questioned in favor of Kyber-512, involving the NSA (National Security Agency), leading to controversy and calls for clearer transparency and understanding.
- The author highlights the potential advantages of alternative encryption systems like NTRU and criticizes potential bias and alleged flaws in NIST's security assessments.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37756656)

- The central focus of discussions is on the credibility and trustworthiness of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in selecting cryptographic algorithms.
- There are speculations about possible interference from the NSA, giving rise to potential backdoors or compromised algorithms.
- The necessity for transparency, clear communication, and independent evaluation in algorithm standardization is underlined, highlighting the importance of these aspects in maintaining trust.

## [Pgroll: zero-downtime, reversible schema migrations for Postgres](https://xata.io/blog/pgroll-schema-migrations-postgres)

- Xata introduced the first iteration of pgroll, a command line utility promoting secure and reversible schema migrations for PostgreSQL.
- pgroll mitigates database schema migration risks by enabling the definition of migrations using JSON format, sustaining dual schema versions during migration, permitting instant rollbacks, and ensuring zero downtime.
- Xata is committed to further developing pgroll; this tool automates the complete lifecycle of schema changes and offers a user-friendly command line interface.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37752366)

- The primary focus of the discussion is pgroll, a tool utilized for zero-downtime, reversible schema migrations in PostgreSQL databases, allowing schema changes while maintaining access to both old and new versions.
- The performance of pgroll and its capability to handle complex schemas are key points of concern in the comparison.
- Other popular migration tools like Flyway and Liquibase are mentioned for comparison purposes.

## [Hey, computer, make me a font](https://serce.me/posts/02-10-2023-hey-computer-make-me-a-font)

- The author recounts their experience of developing generative Machine Learning models to teach a computer to create fonts, in a project called 'FontoGen'.
- The article provides an in-depth look at the challenges of generating fonts and explains the model structure, involving the use of pre-trained BERT and font embeddings.
- The post concludes with the author's enthusiasm about the project's potential and the prospects of future applications in the realm of artificial intelligence and font generation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37750859)

- The conversation is centered on the application of AI, particularly GPT-4 code interpreter, to transform black and white glyphs into SVG to produce fonts.
- Participants hold varied viewpoints on the potential and restrictions of AI-generated fonts, coupled with the prospective effects on the design industry including copyright concerns.
- Apprehensions about the undermining of craftsmanship and the potential reduction in the value of human work are counterbalanced by enthusiasm for the opportunities and accessibility provided by AI in font construction.

## [BBC gives up on Threads, sticks with Mastodon](https://darnell.day/bbc-gives-up-on-threads-by-instagram-sticks-with-mastodon)

- Several brands such as the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC), the National Football League, and CBS News have discontinued using Threads by Instagram due to poor user engagement.
- The BBC is still maintaining its self-hosted Mastodon accounts despite this change, indicating a preference for platforms that offer greater control and flexibility.
- The BBC's decision could be influenced by concerns over Instagram parent company Meta's geo-ban policies and the absence of a public API for automated posts on Threads.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37759871)

- The BBC has decided to drop their news-specific feature, Threads, on its app, shifting focus to Mastodon due to dissatisfaction from users, such as unwanted content recommendations on Instagram.
- Social media's harmful influence on discourse and difficulties in building successful social networks are highlighted in the article, underlining the uncertainty over news credibility on alternative platforms like Bluesky and Mastodon.
- Threads usage on Instagram for gaining valuable behavioural data and the depiction of the Cold War's traumatic effects in the film "Threads" are also mentioned.

## [Detroit man steals 800 gallons using Bluetooth to hack gas pumps at station](https://www.fox2detroit.com/news/detroit-man-steals-800-gallons-using-bluetooth-to-hack-gas-pumps-at-station)

- A man from Detroit has been utilizing Bluetooth technology to remotely access and control gas pumps, enabling him to steal gas without having to pay.
- Gas station owners have been significantly impacted, with losses amounting to almost $3,000 from this hack. Although a suspect is captured in the surveillance footage, the man remains at large.
- Similar incidents have previously happened, leading to heightened alertness from gas station clerks who are advised to involve the police at any sign of suspicious activity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37751140)

- The post is a comprehensive discussion surrounding various security concerns at gas stations, including hacking, theft, and the efficacy of locks.
- It delves into subjects like insurance coverage for theft-related losses, responsibilities of gas station clerks, and payment methods.
- Also highlighted are the moral and security implications of theft as well as the myriad challenges gas station owners face.

## [Graph Mining Library](https://github.com/google/graph-mining)

- "graph-mining" is an open-source project developed by Google, hosted on GitHub, offering tools for graph mining, including in-memory clustering.
- The toolkit finds usefulness in data mining and machine learning applications that need graph structures.
- Accompanied with documentation, a code of conduct, and a security policy, the project is licensed under the Apache-2.0 license.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37753442)

- Google has open-sourced a new graph mining library, drawing attention and discussion due to the lack of documentation or examples.
- The conversation revolves around the importance of having sufficient documentation and the challenges of deciphering the library's usage without it.
- The discussion also involves comparison with other graph processing libraries and mentions applying to Y Combinator's program.

## [Amazon used algorithm to test how much it could raise prices: FTC](https://www.wsj.com/business/retail/amazon-used-secret-project-nessie-algorithm-to-raise-prices-6c593706)

- Amazon employed a strategy, dubbed "Project Nessie," to explore how much it could elevate prices, hoping competitors would follow suit, as revealed by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC).
- This strategy is part of FTC's lawsuit against Amazon, alleging that the tech giant has an undue influence on consumer prices.
- The revealing of "Project Nessie" highlights the concerns and focus on the potential anticompetitive practices of dominant tech firms.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37755648)

- The Financial Times revealed that Amazon employs algorithms to test tolerable price increases, but price hikes continue to depend on managerial approval.
- There are concerns about Amazon's potential anti-competitive behavior, including price matching, predatory pricing, and potential violation of antitrust practices due to its market dominance.
- The article also delves into the roles of shareholders in corporate decision-making, the downsides of monopolies, the trustworthiness of Elon Musk's Starlink, and the issue of counterfeit products on Amazon, including a majority of fake Apple chargers.

## [I applied to 250 jobs and timed how long each one took](https://www.careerfair.io/online-maze)

- The author conducted a study on the time required to apply for 250 jobs, finding that the average application time was 2.7 minutes.
- The study indicated that application time tends to increase with company size, and sectors such as government, aerospace, and consulting have lengthy applications.
- The author noted that older Applicant Tracking Systems (ATS), like Workday and Taleo, tend to extend the duration of job applications significantly.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37753292)

- The text enumerates multiple challenges and frustrations encountered in the job application process, including negative experiences with automated systems and lengthy application periods.
- It presents a debate over the use of artificial intelligence (AI) in evaluating resumes, with concerns about fraudulent resumes, and discusses the impact of restricting job applications on both applicants and employers.
- The text emphasizes the need for customization in resumes and cover letters, sheds light on varying response times from companies, and underscores the necessity for enhancements in hiring procedures.

## [Career Advice (2013)](https://moxie.org/2013/01/07/career-advice.html)

- The author advises young individuals to ponder carefully on their career choices, insisting jobs can significantly shape their personalities.
- They propose observing older professionals in prospective fields can offer valuable insights into one's potential future.
- The piece stresses on self-discovery and the need to challenge societal norms when making career decisions, promoting the pursuit of unconventional experiences and valuing personal satisfaction over monetary benefits.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37759873)

- The author describes their transition from music to software development, emphasizing the merits of gaining perspective, learning from older colleagues, and maintaining a work-life balance.
- They question the extent to which environment and job affect identity, citing the Stanford Prison Experiment, and underline the importance of pursuing personal passions and maintaining critical thinking.
- The author stresses making choices aligned with one's values and goals, establishing good habits, and achieving personal fulfillment outside of work; they also consider the impact of lifestyle choices, such as alcohol consumption, on overall health.

## [Daisugi, the Japanese technique of growing trees out of other trees (2020)](https://www.openculture.com/2020/10/daisugi.html)

- Daisugi is a Japanese method of growing multiple trees from a single one to yield straight lumber, used primarily in architecture.
- Open Culture is an online platform providing a wide array of free educational resources and degree programs, aiming to facilitate wider access to cultural and educational materials.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37759366)

- The article explores the Japanese technique of Daisugi, contrasting it with European techniques.
- It deliberates on the transition to contactless card payments in Japan, its limitations, and the continued use of outdated technology.
- The discussion highlights the importance of cultural preservation and the global diversity of internet users.

## [Review: Framework Laptop finally gets an AMD Ryzen config–and it’s pretty good](https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2023/10/review-framework-laptop-finally-gets-an-amd-ryzen-config-and-its-pretty-good/)

- The Framework Laptop 13 has introduced an AMD Ryzen configuration, offering superior graphics performance compared to its Intel counterpart.
- The design of the laptop remains unchanged, and the Ryzen mainboard is compatible with existing Framework Laptop 13 cases, ensuring backward compatibility.
- While customization of ports is available with expansion modules, users need to be aware that some modules perform better in specific ports. In particular, battery life could diminish when USB-A modules are connected to certain ports.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37752950)

- The conversation focuses on the Framework Laptop, its features like the AMD Ryzen processor option, and comparisons with brands like ThinkPad.
- Users have reported shorter battery life with the AMD model, potentially due to USB port arrangement, and they debate the merits of soldered versus socketed RAM.
- Discussion extends to the prospect of an ecosystem for upgradable parts, the production feasibility of high-performance computer component PCBs, and the feasibility and concerns over shipping Framework laptops to China.

## [Trigger.dev V2 – a Temporal alternative for TypeScript devs](https://trigger.dev)

- Trigger.dev, an open-source alternative to Zapier, has responded to user feedback by simplifying its architecture for self-hosting and facilitating contribution.
- The team plans to extend support towards long-running servers, multiple frameworks, background functions, and polling triggers among others.
- The company encourages continued community feedback and maintains transparency regarding their progress.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37750763)

- Trigger.dev V2 is a newly released open-source alternative to Zapier, offering enhancements in self-hosting, architecture, and API integration.
- The tool is lauded for its ease of use, capability to handle long-running jobs, efficient API integrations, and UI updates.
- Promising future updates and its structural differences over other platforms has drawn positive feedback, making it a compelling choice for users seeking replacements for platforms like BullMQ, Windmill, and Temporal.

## [Lumber prices down 11% YoY](https://www.calculatedriskblog.com/2023/10/update-lumber-prices-down-11-yoy.html)

- The article reports an 11% decrease in lumber prices compared to the previous year.
- It indicates that the transition to a new physically-delivered Lumber Futures contract has influenced long-term price comparisons.
- There's a nod to seasonal demand trends in lumber, with prices typically reaching their peak in April or May.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37756714)

- The article highlights the potential normalized market conditions leading to a decrease in lumber prices following the pandemic-driven surge.
- It also delves into the influence of citrus greening disease and climate change on agriculture, which is of interest to industries including construction and food service.
- A point of discussion is the high prices of food delivery services and the factors impacting plywood prices, providing multiple perspectives on how these changes affect various industries.

## [Fairphone 5 review: The most uncompromising repairable phone yet](https://www.androidpolice.com/fairphone-5-review/)

- Fairphone recently released the Fairphone 5, a smartphone praised for its focus on repairability and environmental responsibility, featuring a modern design, 1224x2770 OLED display, a 4,200mAh battery, 256GB of storage, and 8GB of RAM.
- While current availability is limited to Europe, there's potential for a future US launch. Despite receiving criticism for average camera performance and price, it remains the top option for consumers prioritizing environmental impact and social responsibility.
- The Fairphone 5 claims to offer a longer support window of up to eight years and can be completely disassembled with a standard screwdriver, indicating its commitment to longevity and repairability.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37751924)

- The discussion primarily focused on phone repairability, sustainability, and user preferences, with a highlight on Fairphone models. Concerns raised included availability of replacement parts and longevity support for older models.
- Important topics covered were the cost-effectiveness of repairs versus new purchases, the environmental impact of electronic waste, the significance of using sustainable materials, and factors like removal of headphone jacks or the application of Bluetooth for audio.
- There was a noted admiration for continued operating system and security updates offered by high-end phone models like the iPhone in India, and discussions about potential future technology trends.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Running Stable Diffusion XL 1.0 in 298MB of RAM" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Running%20Stable%20Diffusion%20XL%201.0%20in%20298MB%20of%20RAM&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20October%204%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
