---
slug: '/2023/10/06'
---

# 2023-10-06

## [Where does my computer get the time from?](https://dotat.at/@/2023-05-26-whence-time.html)

- The blog post provides an in-depth exploration of the sources and systems computers utilize to keep accurate time, starting from Network Time Protocol (NTP) servers to high-level international measurement systems.
- The discussion also delves into the history of time measurement, shedding light on the shift from astronomical-based timekeeping to the more precise atomic clocks.
- The author clarifies that contrary to popular belief, computers do not source their time from the Royal Greenwich Observatory.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37778496)

- The discussions prominently cover technical aspects including source of time for computers, utilization of blockchain, and challenges related to time synchronization.
- There is an exploration of the accuracy of clocks in cars and the inconvenience of manually adjusting them, along with details about institutions and technologies involved in timekeeping.
- It concludes with an examination of how handheld devices like smartphones determine and synchronize time, briefly touching upon the topic of the animal's time perception through anecdotes about pets.

## [HTTP/3 adoption is growing rapidly](https://blog.apnic.net/2023/09/25/why-http-3-is-eating-the-world/)

- HTTP/3, a new version of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP), has quickly been incorporated into the public web after being standardized by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF).
- HTTP/3, along with the associated QUIC protocol, is extensively utilized by major companies like Google and Meta, and it replaces the Transport Control Protocol (TCP) with QUIC, offering enhanced encryption and performance improvements.
- The new protocol delivers better speed for web page loading and video streaming, contributing to its rapid acceptance in the industry.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37777050)

- The discussions revolve around several topics such as the use of QUIC protocol to navigate internet restrictions in China, benefits and hurdles of the QUIC protocol, and implementing QoS in QUIC.
- Corporate dissatisfaction with Zscaler network security service, SSL interception usage within corporate networks, and video packaging and encoding strategies each form part of the dialogue.
- Finally, the discussions ponder over the necessity for a standard QUIC API and the benefits of employing mmap() over read() for handling large datasets.

## [Bitmagnet: A self-hosted BitTorrent indexer, DHT crawler, and torrent search](https://bitmagnet.io/)

- Bitmagnet is a self-hosted BitTorrent indexer with unique features like a Distributed Hash Table (DHT) crawler, content classifier, and torrent search engine; these enable users to search for torrents without relying on external entities.
- The project is still in the alpha phase but already has several promising features, such as a generic BitTorrent indexer, a content classifier, a torrent search engine, and a GraphQL API – a technology making it easier to get data from a server to a client.
- The team is working on high-priority features not yet implemented, like classifiers for other content types, search result ordering, search performance optimization, and other handy features such as authentication, saved searches, and support for BitTorrent v2 protocol. It's open to support on GitHub.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37777347)

- The discussion focuses on different elements of DHT crawling, namely its implementation and optimization of its tools.
- Other pressing concerns include illegal and counterfeit content, the requirement for moderation and reputation systems.
- There's also a debate on the potential of governments to scrutinize encrypted content.

## [How fast are Linux pipes anyway? (2022)](https://mazzo.li/posts/fast-pipes.html)

- The article elaborates on the functioning of Unix pipes in Linux with an emphasis on optimizing a test program for data writing and reading through a pipe.
- It delves into the usage of techniques such as vmsplice and splice to enhance throughput by lessening data copying, and the employment of the perf tool for performance analysis.
- It also discusses the role of paging, virtual memory in data transfer, translation of virtual to physical addresses, and the application of huge pages to lower TLB (Translation Lookaside Buffer) misses.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37782493)

- The article details the implementation and performance of Linux pipes, emphasizing the potential benefits of vmsplice, a shared memory mechanism, despite the challenges in optimizing its versions.
- It delves into libraries, APIs for data handling and optimizations, the unpredictable behavior of Linux pipes, and discusses the repercussions of broken pipes.
- Alternative data transfer methods like shared memory or message queues, and optimization techniques such as io_uring and mmap are explored. Also discussed are the application of pipes in shell scripting for high-performance tasks, as well as the trade-offs and performance outcomes when choosing between threads and pipes.

## [An app store just for installable web apps](https://store.app)

- Store.app, a mobile app developed by PWA Labs, Inc, provides features that allow users to login, sign up, navigate, make profiles, modify settings, create lists, and save favorites.
- The app offers a wide range of categories including AI, crypto, games, productivity, shopping, and social, enabling users to install and operate different applications within these groups.
- Among the popular apps are Wordi Games, Replit Dev Tools, friend.tech, Canva, and numerous AI apps.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37782513)

- The central topic of discussion is Progressive Web Apps (PWAs), and their potential benefits over native apps regarding usability and functionality.
- Feedback is shared on a specific app store for PWAs, covering features like filters, installation process, user impressions, and security concerns alongside suggestions to improve.
- An up-and-coming platform called Store.app, aimed at assisting web developers, is covered. It provides useful tools and widgets, but some users report installation and update issues. The ongoing debate between the advantages and disadvantages of apps over websites is also noted.

## [NIST Elliptic Curves Seeds Bounty](https://words.filippo.io/dispatches/seeds-bounty/)

- A bounty of $12,000 is being offered to anyone who can decode five hashes contributing to NIST elliptic curves, prevalent in contemporary cryptography.
- An increase to $36,000 is promised if the recipient opts to donate the reward to charity. This is seen as an incentive to encourage more participation in solving the cryptographic problem.
- The initiative aims to dispel any suspicions or concerns regarding the security of the NIST curves, formed from allegedly hashed English sentences by a now-deceased researcher.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37784499)

- A reward is being offered for discovering the string used to generate random seeds for the NIST P-curves, a type of elliptical-curve cryptography.
- The debate hinges on the possibility of "backdoors" in cryptographic algorithms and the challenge in securely integrating them, with skepticism expressed over the NIST curves' security.
- Discussion also covers the origin of seeds provided by the NSA (National Security Agency) and potential alternative methods for their generation.

## [Database Performance at Scale – A free book](https://www.scylladb.com/2023/10/02/introducing-database-performance-at-scale-a-free-open-source-book/)

- The new open-source book "Database Performance at Scale," authored by ScyllaDB employees and contributors, provides practical advice for enhancing database performance.
- Although written by ScyllaDB team members, its principles apply to users of any database, covering diverse elements affecting performance.
- The book, which offers a unique author perspective on tradeoffs and recommendations, is available for free in digital format and can be bought in print. It's under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37778069)

- ScyllaDB is providing a complimentary book titled "Database Performance at Scale" that delves into multiple aspects of database optimization and scalability.
- The book discusses several topics, including the difficulties of employing Elasticsearch, the advantages of denormalizing data, and considerations for selecting a database with high write capacity.
- It also underscores the significance of meticulous evaluation when picking a database and discusses issues that come with using a database as a primary storage for a system, highlighting the necessity for effective database query optimization.

## [HP fails to derail claims that it bricks scanners on printers when ink runs low](https://abcnews.go.com/Technology/wireStory/hp-fails-derail-claims-bricks-scanners-multifunction-printers-102286365)

- HP Inc. is confronting a class-action lawsuit, alleging that the company deactivates scanning and faxing features on its printers when ink levels deplete.
- The lawsuit accuses HP of deliberately concealing this information from consumers to boost sales from expensive ink cartridges.
- A federal judge has allowed the lawsuit to move forward, dismissing HP's plea to discard the case. This represents a recurring issue, with another group suing Canon Inc. in 2021 for similar practices.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37781862)

- Users express frustration over HP printers, believing them designed to cease functioning when ink levels are low, sparking discussions on reliable and cost-saving printing alternatives.
- Brother laser printers and Canon Pixma printers with refillable toner tanks receive mention for their cost-effectiveness, though mixed reviews cite issues such as WiFi connectivity troubles with Brother printers.
- Beyond printer type, debates reveal issues with the availability of affordable scanners, printer cartridge complications, the need for hard copies in various contexts, and calls for improved regulations and ethics within the printer industry.

## [Krita fund has no corporate support](https://fund.krita.org/)

- The Krita Development Fund is campaigning for financial assistance to hire over ten full-time developers for Krita, a popular open-source digital painting software.
- Individuals and corporations may join the fund by selecting a membership level and pledging a monthly contribution. Different membership options offering varying levels of public or private acknowledgment are available.
- Currently, the fund has 349 individual contributors but no corporate ones, with its total monthly contributions amounting to €4426.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37777301)

- The discourse encompassed various facets of open-source software, touching aspects like funding, potential regulatory requirements, and the pros and cons of such tools.
- The conversation also focused on Krita software, detailing its use-cases, restrictions, licensing and funding models, as well as constructive criticism and its role in corporates.
- Other broader topics covered were the pay disparities among software developers and the influence of economies of scale on business success.

## [US Government issues first-ever space debris penalty to Dish Network](https://www.theguardian.com/science/2023/oct/02/fcc-space-debris-fine-dish-network-satellite)

- The US Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has fined Dish Network $150,000 for breaching its anti-space debris regulations.
- Dish Network is penalized for improperly deorbiting its EchoStar-7 satellite, triggering the potential for increased orbital debris.
- This instance marks the first ever penalty for space debris enforced by the US government, highlighting the FCC's intent to uphold its space debris rules amidst a rapidly growing space economy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37777440)

- The US government has issued its inaugural space debris penalty, charging Dish Network $150,000 for regulatory violations and an additional fine of $126 million by the FCC for improper satellite disposal.
- Swarm Technologies, another satellite company, has been fined $900,000 for unauthorized satellite launches.
- The penalties have sparked discussions on the challenges in rescuing stranded satellites, the importance of disposal plans and regulatory compliance to alleviate space debris, and the potential profitability in tackling space debris issues.

## [September was the most anomalously hot month ever](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/september-was-the-most-anomalously-hot-month-ever/)

- September 2023 marked the hottest month on record, featuring a temperature anomaly 0.5 degrees Celsius higher than the previous record.
- The year 2023 may become the first-ever to exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius above preindustrial temperatures, driven by escalating greenhouse gas emissions from burning fossil fuels and an El Niño event.
- These record-breaking temperatures underscore the immediate necessity for action to curb global warming.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37776854)

- The conversation covers various aspects of climate change, such as its causes, effects, scientific understanding limitations, government's role, economic implications, and the imperative need for alternative energy sources.
- The discourse also delves into the societal impact, with discussions about behavior and diet choices, plastic production's effect, the need for government intervention, and different responses to the crisis.
- The diverse views and perspectives on each topic have ignited debates and disagreements, underscoring the complexity of the climate crisis and the difficulty in finding effective solutions.

## [Booking.com makes a fortune – so why is it leaving its bills to hotels unpaid?](https://www.theguardian.com/business/2023/oct/03/bookingcom-makes-a-fortune-so-why-is-it-leaving-its-bills-to-small-hotels-unpaid)

- Numerous small hotels and partners of Booking.com have reported payment delays since July, causing financial stress for these businesses.
- Despite reporting record profits, Booking.com has been largely silent and unresponsive when approached by partners regarding the payments they are owed.
- The lack of payment and poor communication has led to significant financial difficulties for these businesses, impacting their ability to cover costs and repay debts. Partners are urging for immediate action, transparency, and timely payments from Booking.com.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37781022)

- The primary discussion pertains to criticism and negative experiences with Booking.com, focusing on issues such as payment delays, delayed reimbursements, and customer support.
- There's a debate on the pros and cons of using third-party booking sites as opposed to direct hotel bookings, with added concerns over credit card security and finding suitable accommodations.
- The conversation also calls for enhanced consumer protections and the need to address the market dominance in the travel industry.

## [Generative AI could make search harder to trust](https://www.wired.com/story/fast-forward-chatbot-hallucinations-are-poisoning-web-search/)

- Microsoft's Bing search engine inadvertently served false facts generated by chatbots as accurate information, highlighting issues with the reliability of AI in web search results.
- This accidental experiment exposed how AI-powered systems can potentially amplify the propagation of misinformation on the web.
- The problem could escalate with an increase in AI-generated content on search platforms and social media, raising serious questions about their dependability.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37781231)

- The central topic is concerns about the spread of misinformation due to the use of artificial intelligence (AI) in generating content for search results.
- The forum discusses the limitations of AI in producing accurate information and the difficulty of distinguishing false narratives, suggesting different platforms and tools for verifying sources.
- There's also dialogue on the influence of AI on diverse industries and criticisms of Wired magazine's coverage of the tech sector, emphasizing the need for improved curation and access to trusted information sources.

## [Ron Patrick's Street-Legal Jet Powered Volkswagen Beetle (2006)](https://www.ronpatrickstuff.com/)

- Ron Patrick has constructed a road-legal, jet-powered Volkswagen Beetle, a personal project that contains both a gasoline engine for normal driving and a jet engine for an adrenaline rush.
- Although the car looks like a standard Beetle and is registered in California, engine modifications could prevent it from passing new car smog checks. It uses a repurposed helicopter turboshaft engine for its jet power.
- Despite its unconventional design, it has been well-received at car shows and has attracted significant attention. The California Department of Motor Vehicles is reviewing whether the dual-engine vehicle poses a security risk.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37778531)

- The discussion encompasses various topics such as the application of jet engines and turbines in different fields, including hybrid cars and vehicle modifications.
- Major topics include the efficiency and confines of turbines, along with the legal and safety concerns surrounding the fitting of a jet engine in a car.
- It also delves into examples of turbine-powered vehicles, their commercial triumph, cultural variations in regulations, and the technical nitty-gritty of altering a car with a jet engine.

## [Lenovo PC boss: 4 in 5 of our devices will be repairable by 2025](https://www.theregister.com/2023/10/05/lenovo_pc_boss_4_in/)

- Lenovo, the leading global PC manufacturer, has revealed plans to make 80% of its devices, including repair parts, repairable by 2025.
- The initiative is part of the company's commitment to achieving net zero emissions by 2050, and aligns with efforts by the European Council to revise EU regulations on right-to-repair.
- Lenovo maintains that emphasizing repairability will not hinder business, and is a necessary step towards sustainability and informing consumers about product lifespan.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37778771)

- Lenovo plans to make 80% of their devices repairable by 2025, a move appreciated by customers concerned about the non-repairability of current devices.
- Some users express concerns over Lenovo's previous incidents involving malware and backdoors, cautioning others to remain vigilant.
- The plan resonates positively with a discontent expressed over soldered RAM and the preclusion to upgrades, showing a demand for more repairable and upgradable devices in today's market.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Where does my computer get the time from?" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Where%20does%20my%20computer%20get%20the%20time%20from%3F&subheading=Friday%2C%20October%206%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
