---
slug: '/2023/10/07'
---

# 2023-10-07

## [Making Hard Things Easy](https://jvns.ca/blog/2023/10/06/new-talk--making-hard-things-easy/)

- The speaker at Strange Loop conference recognizes the hardships in understanding complex concepts such as DNS and SQL, and programming languages like bash.
- The talk emphasises on sharing knowledge and experiences, and using tools and examples to reveal obscure facets of computer processes.
- The speaker appreciates conference organizers and indicates their interest in explorations focused on improving UI design elements, like Git.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37791002)

- The article discusses the significance of tools that provide hidden information and the challenges faced while programming in bash and SQL, including difficulties in remembering command line tool syntax.
- Interactive shells, their benefits, the demand for better tooling, and alternative programming languages are debated.
- The need to comprehend core concepts, sharing knowledge, the utilization of forums, cognitive load reduction tools, AI like GPT-4 in scripting, and varying preferences in learning methods are also brought up.

## [AMD may get across the CUDA moat](https://www.hpcwire.com/2023/10/05/how-amd-may-get-across-the-cuda-moat/)

- The article tackles Nvidia's domination in the GenAI market and the issues faced by those seeking to use different hardware.
- It underscores AMD's competitive strategies, such as backing PyTorch and launching the Instinct MI300A processor, to rival Nvidia.
- The article emphasizes the significance of performance, portability, and availability amidst GenAI hardware competitions, along with updates on industry developments.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37793635)

- The discussion centers around the competition between AMD and NVIDIA in the GPU market, specifically regarding AI, machine learning, high-performance computing, and Linux-based graphics card usage.
- Participants focus on performance, compatibility, and limitations of AMD's GPU compute technology and the ROCm platform. They compare it to NVIDIA's CUDA framework and highlight the challenges related to hardware support, packaging, build systems, and software ecosystem.
- There's an identified need for better support, enhanced resources, and improved performance from AMD. Participants also discuss the potential impact of competition on prices, and the potential of new entrants like Intel in the GPU market.

## [We’re opening up access to Gov.uk forms](https://gds.blog.gov.uk/2023/10/03/how-were-opening-up-access-to-gov-uk-forms/)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37789107)

- The article compliments the user-friendly interface and design of GOV.UK, while also shedding light on potential privacy concerns and dependency on external platforms.
- The piece also reflects differing views on the appeal of government technology jobs and the efficiency of government systems.
- It emphasizes the advantages of the UK government's digital signature system and features of the gov.uk website, suggesting a requirement for improved guidelines for government forms.

## [Postman update removes all your stuff if you refuse to create account](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37792690)

- A user reported that using Postman offline without an account resulted in all their collections and settings being deleted upon declining to create an account when prompted.
- Despite creating an account subsequently, the wiped data did not recover, though the user managed to restore it manually from a backup in a specific location.
- This incident has led to a loss of trust in Postman from the user, who is now seeking alternative tools to transition towards.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37792690)

- The recent update to Postman, an API client tool, has sparked user frustration as it now demands the creation of an account, causing concerns about data loss.
- Users are exploring alternatives to Postman, which include tools like Insomnia, VSCode extensions, HTTPie, Bruno, Kreya, Paw/Rapid API, Hopscotch, and IntelliJ HTTP requests.
- A split emerges among these users with some favoring curl or command-line alternatives, while others argue for the convenience of GUI tools like Postman despite concerns about pricing and compatibility.

## [23andMe says user data stolen in credential stuffing attack](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/genetics-firm-23andme-says-user-data-stolen-in-credential-stuffing-attack/)

- Genetics company 23andMe has reported a data breach via a credential stuffing attack, resulting in stolen user data.
- The compromised data contains complete names, usernames, profile images, genetic ancestry results, and geographical locations of users.
- To prevent such attacks, the firm recommends users utilize two-factor authentication and establish strong, unique passwords for their online accounts.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37794379)

- The central theme of the discussions revolves around security and privacy issues linked with genetic testing firms, such as 23andMe, as well as topics like data breaches, password security, and liability for data protection.
- Different perspectives surface, with some participants advocating for sterner security measures and increased corporate responsibility, whereas others stress on user ownership of data and question the effectiveness of certain security strategies.
- The conversations underline the intricate challenges and possible ramifications of dealing with personal and genetic data.

## [Thread-per-core](https://without.boats/blog/thread-per-core/)

- The Rust community is debating the default usage of multi-threaded executors in asynchronous programming, with some advocating for a "thread-per-core" architecture.
- The article delves into "work-stealing" and "share-nothing" architecture concepts, exploring their implications on system performance. It references Pekka Enberg's paper that illustrates share-nothing architecture's advantages.
- The author raises doubts about the feasibility and simplicity of implementing Enberg's architecture versus traditional methods, concluding that work-stealing may prove beneficial for systems with a shared state.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37790745)

- The texts encompass discussions around programming languages, concurrency models, asynchronous programming, alongside the difficulties of debugging and troubleshooting.
- Specific topics highlighted include thread-per-core architecture, work stealing executors, stackful coroutines, data processing, high-speed network interface cards, and the Rust programming language.
- There's an emphasis on the importance of resource management efficiency, performance trade-offs consideration, robust debugging tools, and a need for more stringent technical criticism in the software development sector.

## [Use an old tablet as an extra monitor](https://github.com/alex028502/extra-screen)

- The mentioned feature is exclusively available for terminal and curses applications.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37789371)

- The article delves into the usage of tablets and smartphones as secondary displays for computers, examining various software solutions.
- It debunks the topic of using multiple monitors for heightened productivity, discusses preferences regarding screen arrangement and input devices, and talks about the limitations of current options.
- Crucially, the discussion emphasizes a need for a broader range of input options and better task and information management systems.

## [Narges Mohammadi wins 2023 Nobel Peace Prize](https://www.cnn.com/world/live-news/nobel-peace-prize-2023-latest-news-intl/index.html)

- Iranian activist Narges Mohammadi, who is in jail for over 30 years due to her advocacy for women's rights, has been awarded the 2023 Nobel Peace Prize, representing a significant pushback against oppression in Iran.
- The Iranian government is imposing stricter penalties on women who violate the dress code, utilizing artificial intelligence for identification.
- Ukrainian human rights advocate Oleksandra Matviichuk has shown her support for Mohammadi, signalling the crucial role of solidarity in the fight for freedom, while the model's international recognition sends a strong message to the Iranian leaders emphasizing women's rights.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37788847)

- This text delves into controversies surrounding the Nobel Peace Prize, including its credibility and the concerns over politicization.
- The content explores criticism of the prize's selection process, and ties it to real-world events such as the overthrow of the Iranian government.
- The discussions underscore a variety of views on political regimes, the Nobel Peace Prize itself, and the global quest for peace.

## [Shortbread – Create AI comics in minutes](https://shortbread.ai/)

- Shortbread is a user-friendly platform that enables users to generate comics and manga series without the necessity of signing in, with an easy onboarding process and a fully customizable editor.
- The platform's technical structure relies on GPT 3.5 Turbo for script creation and SD 1.5 for image cropping, with a frontend and backend developed using Next.js 13 on Vercel and Firebase respectively.
- Shortbread plans to expand its features to offer more detailed panel controls and varied styles, and invites constructive criticism and suggestions to improve the service.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37792444)

- Shortbread.ai has released a new platform enabling users to generate AI-based comics and manga series by providing prompts for the AI to create comic panels.
- Notwithstanding, the current version of the platform suffers from issues with consistency and character control, which the company is actively addressing, along with scaling up the server capacity to handle increased user traffic.
- Though the service is currently free during its initial beta phase, a subscription model may be implemented in the future. The platform has drawn considerable user interest despite some reporting technical login issues.

## [A job application tracker with company reviews, recruiter autoresponder](https://rolepad.com)

- Rolepad is a free service designed to enhance job hunting by offering a record-keeping system, allowing tracking and management of applications, saving recruiter correspondence, creating progress charts, and anonymous reviews of companies' application processes.
- The technology stack of Rolepad comprises React with Tailwind on the frontend, C# for the backend, and is hosted on AWS for robust and scalable cloud solutions. The application is server-side rendered (SSR) for faster performance and no cold start.
- Rolepad's creator is initiating discussions with employers to discover strategies to mitigate frustration for both job candidates and employers, showing a commitment to improving the overall hiring process.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37792507)

- Rolepad is a job application tracker designed to enhance transparency and efficiency in the hiring process, allowing users to track job applications, accumulate company information, and visualize progress through charts.
- Users can also provide feedback on their experience with the application, interview, and job offer procedures. Rolepad employs React, C#, and is hosted on AWS, utilizing Google Firebase for authentication.
- The founder is contemplating the development of a unified platform for job seekers and employers, with discussions focusing on privacy concerns, review authenticity, future features, effective security measures, possible monetization methods, and the technology stack. Applications for YC Winter 2024 are currently open.

## [Java 21 VirtualThreads vs. Clojure Lazy Seqs](https://clojure.org/news/2023/10/06/deref)

- The newest edition of Clojure Deref announces the release of Java 21, highlighting its effects on virtual threads and problems concerning object monitors during I/O blocking.
- The issue explores various solutions like the use of ReentrantLocks to resolve conflicts between object monitors and virtual threads.
- The issue details ongoing work on functional interface adapters, method thunks, refinements in implicit coercion and conversion, and the introduction of a new array class syntax.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37792294)

- The article focuses on the differences between Java 21 VirtualThreads and Clojure Lazy Seqs, touching upon the issue of temporary synchronization pinning in Clojure and the potential fix using GraalVM native images.
- It suggests the use of virtual threads in Java as a niche but potentially efficient solution for high-traffic applications, and reviews the pros and cons of utilizing Clojure, ClojureScript, Kotlin, and Java in software development.
- It includes a comparison of Kotlin compatibility and support across different Integrated Development Environments (IDEs) like Eclipse, IntelliJ, and VS Code, and prompts a discussion on the relevance of IDEs for languages such as Java.

## [Thirty Years Ago: MS-DOS 6.00](https://www.pcjs.org/blog/2023/10/04/)

- The summary introduces the MultiConfig feature in MS-DOS 6.00, a system that allows for easy customization of startup configurations.
- It highlights the existence of bugs within the DoubleSpace feature of MS-DOS.
- There is a discussion about various configurations and options linked to the COMMAND.COM command interpreter for DOS 7.00.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37790174)

- The article prompts an nostalgic discussion surrounding early versions of MS-DOS 6.00 and Windows, including the challenges faced, memory optimization and gaming during that era.
- Commenters share diverse experiences of using MS-DOS, Windows, and disk compression software, along with usage of alternative operating systems.
- References are made to the rapid advancements in Information Technology (IT) during the 1990s in the discussions.

## [DotBigBang – Multiplayer game engine with 120fps and 2 second load time](https://dotbigbang.com/game/1af877e9bfdb47088611f55982b7570f/prestons-diamond-wars?mp=playdw)

- The post discusses the advancements on dotbigbang.com, a fully encompassing platform where multiplayer games, as well as the game editors, operate on the web.
- It provides a unique feature that allows users to create and share multiplayer games just by providing a link, eliminating the need for any setup.
- Users can access more details, documents, and updates on the platform's own website, blog, and Discord server.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37797606)

- DotBigBang is a web-based multiplayer game engine, allowing for easy creation and sharing of games across multiple devices. The platform boasts high frame rates and quick loading times.
- Developed by a small team using Python, Go, and TypeScript, it facilitates discussion around its features, implementation challenges, and shared experiences with technical issues.
- User feedback indicates the need for effective anti-cheating measures to enhance the gaming experience.

## [Unreal Engine will no longer be free for all](https://www.creativebloq.com/news/epic-games-unreal-engine-charge)

- Epic Games has announced a switch to a subscription-based pricing model for Unreal Engine, their graphics engine, directed at industries beyond gaming, affecting use for VFX or animation.
- Unlike the previous royalty model which only applied to projects earning over $1 million in revenue, this new model could potentially impact independent filmmakers and non-professional users.
- While pricing details are yet to be shared, Epic Games CEO Tim Sweeney assured that the new rates won't be exorbitant or unusually cheap; student and educator access to Unreal Engine will continue to be free.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37792030)

- Unreal Engine has modified its licensing model and will no longer be free for all users. It now incorporates revenue thresholds for large commercial use outside of game development.
- The article argues that changes, although widely debated regarding fairness and impact on industries, are not as dramatic as they seem and could have been anticipated earlier.
- The author discusses the pros and cons of the subscription-based model and the necessity of a sustainable business model in the context of the financial situation of Epic Games.

## [23andMe scraping incident leaked data on 1.3M users](https://therecord.media/scraping-incident-genetic-testing-site)

- Genetic testing company 23andMe has acknowledged a data scraping incident where hackers accessed and sold sensitive user data on the dark web.
- The leaked data includes origin estimation, health-related information, and photos of nearly 7 million users, manifesting a security loophole in 23andMe.
- Despite initial denial, the company confirmed the violation and theorizes that the breach happened due to leaked login credentials from other platforms, raising privacy and security concerns in genetic testing companies.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37795652)

- The genetic testing firm 23andMe witnessed a data breach, resulting in a leak of personal information of approximately 1.3 million users.
- The data breach was due to a credential stuffing attack, a type of cyber attack where stolen account credentials are used to gain unauthorized access to user accounts.
- More details and discussions regarding the event are available on the Hacker News platform.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Making Hard Things Easy" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Making%20Hard%20Things%20Easy&subheading=Saturday%2C%20October%207%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
