---
slug: '/2023/10/08'
---

# 2023-10-08

## [Paperless-ngx – Open source document management system](https://nerdyarticles.com/a-clutter-free-life-with-paperless-ngx/)

- The article discusses the utility and benefits of using Paperless-ngx, a document management tool, including organizational strategies using tags and improved efficiency.
- It details the transition from Paperless-ng to Paperless-ngx, underlining the enhanced flexibility in handling digital documents with the new version.
- The post offers useful insights into setting up Paperless-ngx in a Docker environment, the deployment of a database and a container via Docker Compose, and exploring self-hosting options.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37800951)

- The dialogues focus on various document management systems like Paperless-ngx, DEVONthink, Stacks, and self-hosted solutions, discussing their features, setups, backups, and the advantages and difficulties of going paperless.
- The conversation underscores the importance of organizing and keeping documents for legal, tax, and contractual reasons, and the convenience of digital storage is also emphasized.
- There is a debate about other methods such as physical organization and potential risks associated with self-hosted services, and some members show interest in developing a SaaS (Software as a Service) document management system.

## [Wired has removed "How Google alters search queries" story](https://www.wired.com/story/google-antitrust-lawsuit-search-results/)

- WIRED retracted an op-ed titled "How Google Alters Search Queries to Get at Your Wallet."
- The article focused on the possible alteration of Google's search results for commercial benefit.
- The op-ed was taken down as it did not fulfil WIRED's editorial standards.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37802116)

- Wired has withdrawn an article which inaccurately stated that Google manipulates search queries to upsurge ad sales, the article was authored by an ex-Duck Duck Go executive.
- The removal of the article sparked a discourse about the effect of ads on search outcomes, revenue targets within Google, journalism, transparency, and the influence of conspiracy theories on public faith.
- The general sentiment depicts an escalating suspicion towards Silicon Valley and a perception of manipulative content and advertisements online.

## [Decomposing language models into understandable components](https://www.anthropic.com/index/decomposing-language-models-into-understandable-components)

- Anthropic, a product research company, has engineered a technique to interpret complex neural networks, particularly language models, by breaking them into understandable units known as features.
- This approach allows for better interpretability and control over the model's behavior by activating specific features. It was verified using human evaluation and autointerpretability methods.
- The identified features are substantially consistent across distinct models, giving broad insights. The aim is to improve safety and reliability of language models, with a further challenge to scale this method for more comprehensive models.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37806861)

- Anthropic has pioneered a technique to dissect language models for enhanced comprehension and control, which could pave the way for future efficiency in different models.
- The research offers an examination of the advancements in AI and language models, emphasizing their significant roles in automation and coding.
- The article touches on the resemblance of feature convergence in language models to the principle of renormalization in physics, signaling a possible overlap between these distinct domains.

## [The glass at McCormick Place in Chicago is a lethal obstacle for birds](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2023/oct/07/chicago-mccormick-place-building-bird-deaths-windows)

- Over 1,000 birds perished after striking the McCormick Place in Chicago, marking the highest number of bird strikes recorded by the Chicago Bird Collision Monitors in a day.
- The severity of this incident, caused due to the glass-covered structure during the birds' southern migration, will become clear as more affected birds are found.
- Despite measures taken by Chicago to prevent such occurrences, further action is necessary as collisions with buildings, often mitigated by turning off lights and using visual markers, claim roughly a billion birds annually.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37800810)

- The discussion majorly revolves around the issue of bird collisions with glass buildings, with a specific focus on McCormick Place in Chicago. Different solutions - angling glass, adding markings, and using stickers - are debated for their effectiveness.
- The discourse also highlights incidents of blind individuals colliding with glass walls, emphasizing the need for visibility considerations for all individuals.
- It covers challenges in implementing bird-friendly design guidelines in urban scenarios. Additionally, it addresses implications of free-ranging domestic cats on bird mortality and advocates for regulatory measures and actions to address bird population decline. Financial implications and stopgap solutions for the buildings are also touched upon.

## [Organization probably doesn't want to improve things](https://ludic.mataroa.blog/blog/your-organization-probably-doesnt-want-to-improve-things/)

- The author highlights the dissatisfaction experienced by many in their workplaces due to the dissonance between professed values and actual feelings, often due to organizational pressure to display data-driven digital transformation.
- The article underscores the negative effect of workplace incompetence on productivity and suggests prioritizing concrete problem-solving over systemic change.
- It concludes by promoting the notion that genuine change within organizations is only attainable through actions, not mere verbal commitments or empty promises.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37806870)

- Discussions in the article are centered around challenges faced in organizations, including a lack of incentives for improvement, accountability issues, fear of consequences, and operational inefficiencies.
- The dialogue emphasizes on understanding the root causes of dysfunction, the implications of capitalism's limitations, and the necessity of a positive work environment.
- The use and challenges of Git, selection of compatible company culture, the significance of buzzy words, and prioritizing individual interests are also addressed, necessitating systemic changes for substantial improvements within organizations.

## [Berry is a ultra-lightweight dynamically typed embedded scripting language](https://berry-lang.github.io/)

- Berry Script Language is a highly efficient, dynamically typed embedded scripting language developed for lower-performance embedded devices.
- Characteristics of Berry include support for imperative, object-oriented, and functional programming, a lean and optimized interpreter, garbage collection, Foreign Function Interface (FFI), and low RAM usage.
- It offers diverse data types and operators, class inheritance, exception handling, and comprehensive documentation with examples for ease of understanding and application.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37801140)

- The conversation centers on Berry, an ultra-lightweight scripting language, highlighting its performance, memory usage, and its potential to stand as an alternative to Python and Lua.
- Key discussion points include sandboxing, file access, compute time, ECS/ECBS (Entity Component System/Event-Driven Code-Based System) architecture, and error handling. Berry's optimization for embedded systems and streamlined syntax are also extensively discussed.
- There's a noted interest from users wanting to utilize Berry in microcontroller projects, and a concern about a trend towards growing complexity in programming languages coupled with limited examples and documentation.

## [Shell using Fortnite, TikTok, etc. to convince kids fossil fuels are cool](https://kotaku.com/shell-big-oil-roadtrips-fortnite-map-collab-tiktok-ign-1850907435)

- Shell Oil has teamed up with Fortnite to create a promotional world called "Shell Ultimate Road Trips", leveraging popular influencers on TikTok and Twitch to promote the collaboration.
- This tie-up has been faced with considerable backlash, as younger audiences are notably concerned about climate change and the effect of the fossil fuel industry.
- This move is part of a larger trend where oil companies attempt to communicate with younger demographics via online influencers and content creators.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37800507)

- Threads discuss Shell's promotion of fossil fuels on platforms like Fortnite and TikTok, criticism around advertising such products to children, and the popularity of Fortnite’s partnership with Shell.
- Dialogue revolves around the EV industry's potential negative effects, influence of government subsidies and regulations on the oil sector, impacts of climate change and carbon taxes, and the challenges of living without a car amid public transport limits.
- Discussions also mention the role of oil companies in climate change, hindrance by fossil fuel companies on alternative energy development, and the contentious position of nuclear power against the green movement.

## [Meta in Myanmar, Part III. The Inside View](https://erinkissane.com/meta-in-myanmar-part-iii-the-inside-view)

- The summary discusses the role of Meta (formerly Facebook) in Myanmar, especially concerning its failure in managing misleading content, hate speech, and violent activity on its platforms.
- It references internal documents and whistleblower revelations, suggesting instances of algorithmic manipulation and political influence campaigns.
- Furthermore, it outlines the consequences of Meta's actions, including its inability to address the Rohingya crisis effectively, affecting the Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh and the overall geopolitical situation in Myanmar.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37801150)

- The forum thread discusses Meta's challenges in controlling hate speech, particularly pertaining to its effect on the Rohingya people in Myanmar.
- Users are expressing concerns over the widespread hate speech on social media, the constraints of AI in handling these issues, and the profit-focused mentality of corporations.
- The conversation brings into question Facebook's role, the efficacy of machine learning, the use of legal action against hate speech, and the idea of governments establishing controlled social media networks.

## [FTX "insurance fund" calculated by multiplying trading volume by random number](https://twitter.com/molly0xfff/status/1710718416724595187)

- In the US v. Sam Bankman-Fried court case, evidence indicated that the 'insurance fund' advertised by FTX was in fact fraudulent.
- The calculations for this alleged fund were found to be based on the multiplication of daily trading volumes by an arbitrary figure close to 7500.
- This revelation could potentially impact the trust and credibility placed in FTX, a prominent cryptocurrency trading platform.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37804493)

- The insurance fund at cryptocurrency exchange FTX is under scrutiny due to its value determination method. It uses a random number derived from trading volume, stoking suspicions of fraud and eliciting criticism for lacking detailed risk analysis.
- This use of a random number generator raises concerns about transparency and potential legal issues, suggesting a need for more openness in such financial processes.
- There's active debate around FTX's choice to use a normal distribution for calculating the fund's value. This decision's ethical and legal implications further contribute to the ongoing controversy.

## [Sonoma's log gets briefer and more secretive](https://eclecticlight.co/2023/10/07/sonomas-log-gets-briefer-and-more-secretive/)

- Changes to the Unified log in macOS have resulted in a compressed binary format for log files, making user access and comprehension challenging, primarily through the Console app.
- The updated log has both coverage and privacy censorship limitations, with quick purges of entries and obfuscation of sensitive data, hindering effective utilization and analysis of log files by users.
- After upgrading to the Monterey operating system, some Mac users are experiencing slower performance and increased device temperatures, leading them to contemplate reverting to preceding operating systems.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37801354)

- The text discusses various challenges and concerns with Mac operating systems, including excessive log files making troubleshooting difficult and privacy concerns from potential targeted attacks.
- There's an ongoing debate about administering Mac systems versus Windows and Linux, with arguments for improved tools and knowledge, countered by difficulties securing and managing Mac devices.
- The article involves discussions on the role of IT departments in managing work devices, focusing on striking a balance between privacy and productivity, and scrutinizes the restrictions placed by IT, questioning their cost-effectiveness.

## [Permission Slip: Consumer Reports app to take back control of your data](https://permissionslipcr.com/)

- Consumer Reports, a nonprofit advocating for consumer rights, has developed an app called Permission Slip to help users control their personal data.
- The app informs users about the data collected by companies and assists in taking protective measures.
- Users can support the mission of Consumer Reports through donations and utilizing the Permission Slip app to manage their data.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37805969)

- Consumer Reports has introduced an app named Permission Slip, designed to safeguard users' personal data, yet its privacy policy is drawing criticism.
- Another data privacy app, DeleteMe, is under debate: user feedback shows varying views on its efficacy and customer-friendliness.
- Despite the ongoing conversation emphasizing the significance of data privacy and the limitations of current tools, the author casts doubt on Consumer Reports' credibility due to their online practices.

## [ChatGPT – Dalle3 System Prompt](https://twitter.com/Suhail/status/1710653717081653712)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37804288)

- The discussions revolve around language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT, highlighting their functionalities, strengths, limitations, and instructing techniques.
- More advanced AI models like DALL·E, specialized in generating images, necessitate guidelines and safety protocols due to rapid advancements and potential loophole exploitation.
- The text also mentions open applications for the Y Combinator (YC) Winter 2024, a startup funding program hailing great interest among tech enthusiasts.

## [Brave layoffs](https://techcrunch.com/2023/10/06/brave-lays-off-9-of-its-workforce/)

- Due to difficult economic conditions, Brave Software, known for the Brave Browser and Search, has dismissed 9% of its personnel.
- The company has been developing revenue-generating initiatives like its own search API and a built-in AI assistant named Leo.
- To help fund API access and hosting expenses, Brave anticipates offering premium features for Leo.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37801043)

- The Hacker News discussion concentrates on Brave browser, Firefox's potential to claim the top spot amongst open-source browsers, and the need for new open-source browsers.
- The dialogue includes discontent regarding Firefox's leadership and decisions, concerns over browser competition, web specifications' complexity, and Google's dominance.
- Further conversation revolves around the potential of alternative revenue streams for browsers, along with discussion surrounding the job market, including within the IT industry.

## [Quake related work logs (1996)](https://www.gamers.org/dEngine/quake/info/worklogs.html)

- This post shares worklog snapshots associated with the development process of the game Quake, documented by John Carmack from February to June.
- It also includes logs related to QuakeWorld in August, along with John Cash's worklogs spanning June to August.
- The content's copyright still belongs to the author, emphasizing the importance of respecting intellectual property in the gaming industry.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37804301)

- The discourse is focused on John Carmack's work logs as well as his productivity and note-taking habits, providing a glimpse into the development process of early computer games like Quake.
- One key argument in the post is the perceived increased complexity in software development, with more emphasis now on tools and processes, as opposed to individual programmer skills.
- The importance of having a supportive, creative, and trusting work environment in software development is underscored, and there is a note about open applications for YC (Y Combinator) Winter 2024 at the end of the post.

## [Moving Marginalia to a new server](https://www.marginalia.nu/log/90-new-server-design/)

- The search engine, Marginalia, is transitioning to a new server equipped with upgraded hardware specifications: 512GB RAM and 128 logical cores.
- The deployment strategy involves running multiple index partitions on different physical disks to minimize resource contention, despite potential difficulties with page faults. The software modifications will support multiple backing indexes and smaller working datasets.
- The design also prioritizes resilience and recovery, with safeguards against disk failures. With the ongoing migration process and the availability of a secondary server, provision for downtime is accounted for.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37800753)

- The author is in the process of migrating the Marginalia website and search engine to a new server, deep-rooted in considerations regarding resource allocation, virtualization, and performance optimization.
- Discussed are apprehensions about Microsoft's ownership of GitHub, leading to considering Codeberg as an alternative domain pointer; this reflects a critical decision-making process for the website's continuity.
- As well as deliberating on issues such as the cost, anticipated performance improve, and data migration, they also shine light on the volume of documents indexed and the magnitude of data involved in their operation.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Paperless-ngx – Open source document management system" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Paperless-ngx%20%E2%80%93%20Open%20source%20document%20management%20system&subheading=Sunday%2C%20October%208%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
