---
slug: '/2023/10/15'
---

# 2023-10-15

## [Anything longer ago than yesterday should just say the actual date](https://grumpy.website/1389)

- The author raises concerns over the use of relative time labels like "yesterday" and "2 days ago" on websites, arguing they distort human perception of time.
- They highlight how varying ways these labels are implemented can cause confusion and distrust.
- The suggestion is put forth to replace these vague time references with specific dates for clarity.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37880818)

- The focal point of the discussion is the use of relative timestamps on websites and applications and the need for more precise date and time information.
- The author criticizes standard JavaScript's handling of datetime and recommends using libraries like Moment, Luxon, or date-fns for better datetime management.
- The conversation also covers the use of tooltips, user preferences, screen space, minimalistic design, and balancing it with provision of relevant information. The preference is leaning towards having both relative and absolute dates for different user needs.

## [Undermining Democracy: The EU Commission's Controversial Push for Surveillance](https://dannymekic.com/202310/undermining-democracy-the-european-commissions-controversial-push-for-digital-surveillance)

- The European Commission is proposing a regulation for automatic scanning of digital communication apps for criminal activity, raising concerns about privacy infringement and improper implementation.
- Allegations arise claiming that the Commission uses manipulative advertising and misinformation to garner public support for these regulations.
- The push for increased digital surveillance has caused controversy, leading to the EU Council delaying the vote on the issue.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37880635)

## [Linux Performance](https://www.brendangregg.com/linuxperf.html)

- Brendan Gregg's website is a comprehensive source for systems performance and Linux performance analysis, including blog posts, books, and tools for performance analysis, tuning, and benchmarking.
- The site features Gregg's talks and presentations on various subjects such as container performance analysis, Linux tracing tools, and Site Reliability Engineering (SRE) performance checklists.
- In addition to its own content, the website also suggests other valuable resources for deeper understanding of Linux performance.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37879706)

- The article dives into Linux performance tuning tools and techniques, emphasizing their significant role in optimizing real-time application performance on Debian and Ubuntu Virtual Private Servers (VPSs).
- The writer highlights Brendan Gregg's substantial contribution to the field, recommending his book as an essential resource, and underscores the importance of latency optimization.
- It also advocates for on-the-job learning and making well-informed decisions when configuring and tuning database servers, highlighting the complexity of Linux performance tuning and the importance of knowledge documentation.

## [F-Droid version of KDEConnect uninstalled by PlayProtect](https://discuss.kde.org/t/f-droid-version-of-kdeconnect-uninstalled-by-playprotect/5992)

- PlayProtect, a security feature on Android devices, has incorrectly removed the F-Droid version of KDEConnect, categorizing it as counterfeit.
- Users of KDEConnect have faced this issue and are currently seeking help from the KDE community.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37879935)

## [Anti-Anti-Adblocker uBlock filter to get rid of the annoying YouTube message](https://twitter.com/endermanch/status/1713129854818742684)

- A new filter has been incorporated into uBlock Origin, which has the function of disabling the JavaScript anti-adblock feature on YouTube.
- This innovation provides a solution for users by eliminating the recurring issue of an irritating message.
- UBlock Origin is a popular tool that empowers Internet users to control over the content displayed on their screens.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37884683)

- The discussion touches on multiple aspects of YouTube, encompassing ad block usage, worthiness of YouTube Premium, user discontent with YouTube's business model and services, and options to bypass ads.
- An ongoing debate exists around the ethical implications of ad-blocking, counterbalanced by the necessity of companies to earn revenue while users expect free content.
- Stances differ on these subjects, ranging from frustration on ad placements and privacy infringements, to propositions of subscribing to premium services or accepting ad-presence as a fact of the platform.

## [Kalman filter from the ground up](https://www.kalmanfilter.net/default.aspx)

- This summary highlights a tutorial and book dedicated to the Kalman Filter algorithm, technical jargon for a method used to estimate and predict system states amidst uncertainty.
- The educational resources aim to demystify the complex topic by providing practical examples and clear explanations, handling basic concepts in the tutorial and exploring advanced topics like non-linear filters in the book.
- Authored by a seasoned professional with 20 years of experience, the material offers intuitive explanations and illustrative examples to fully comprehend the Kalman Filter, a critical algorithm for estimating hidden states and predicting future ones, despite measurement and process uncertainties.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37879715)

- The discussion is primarily about confusion and dissatisfaction regarding tutorials that overlook significant clarifications or assume previous knowledge, focusing on the implementation of the Kalman filter.
- Contributors to the discussion compare the use of Kalman filters and machine learning models, agreeing that both techniques have their advantages and disadvantages.
- The thread notes that Kalman filters are extensively used across many industries but require knowledge of their limitations, with one commenter recounting their difficulty in applying them in a production environment.

## [Examining the silicon dies of the Intel 386 processor](http://www.righto.com/2023/10/intel-386-die-versions.html)

- The blog post details the historical context and features of the Intel 386 processor, stressing its role in the switch to 32-bit architecture.
- It highlights the critical role of the 386 processor in establishing x86 dominance and transforming the computer industry.
- Additional information about aspects such as the transistor count, performance enhancement, pipeline, functional units, and IBM's hesitation to support the 386 is also provided.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37881656)

- This post discusses the Intel 386 processor, focusing on its historical importance, unique optimizations, and how it contrasts with contemporary processors.
- It gives an insight into the role of microcode in processors and delves into Intel's design process.
- It emphasizes the 386 processor's influence on 32-bit computing and includes personal anecdotes shared by a commenter in relation to the chip.

## [Firefox add-on to open YouTube videos in alternative front ends](https://github.com/d3vr/yt-siphon)

- A user has developed a Firefox Add-On as a response to being blocked by YouTube for using an adblocker.
- This Add-On enables them to open videos using alternative front-ends, including piped.video.
- It allows users to customize the default front-end and operate keybindings to open videos in their configured front-end.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37881771)

- A Firefox add-on has been created that enables users to open YouTube videos on alternative platforms following YouTube's blocking of users with ad-blockers.
- Users are suggesting the use of extensions to redirect YouTube URLs to platforms like Invidious or Piped for a more private browsing experience, but this raises concerns about the effects on ad impressions and funding for browsers like Firefox.
- The conversation debates whether browsers should include built-in capabilities to bypass blocking measures, while recognizing the importance of ads and subscriptions for offsetting storage and bandwidth costs.

## [Tumor-destroying sound waves receive FDA approval for liver treatment in humans](https://news.umich.edu/tumor-destroying-sound-waves-receive-fda-approval-for-liver-treatment-in-humans/)

- The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has endorsed the application of sound waves, a technique known as histotripsy, to destruct liver tumors in human bodies.
- Developed by the University of Michigan and implemented by HistoSonics, this innovation employs ultrasound waves to generate microbubbles in tumors, leading to their fragmentation and elimination by the immune system.
- Histotripsy not only provides a noninvasive alternative to traditional cancer treatments, such as surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation, but also shows potential benefits for the immune system and future integration with immunotherapy or drug delivery.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37879893)

- The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved the use of tumor-destroying sound waves for liver treatment in humans.
- This technology is considered a potentially significant low-trauma life-saving method.

## [Petition against EU chat control](https://stopscanningme.eu/en/index.html)

- Demonstrations and photo stunts against the EU's CSA Regulation, a mass surveillance proposal, were held in Stockholm and Berlin to raise privacy concerns.
- Most young people from 13 EU Member States would feel restrained in their political activities or exploration of sexuality if their digital communication was under scrutiny, based on the summary.
- The summary encourages joining the opposition against the proposal, which consists of over 11,000 individuals and 133 NGOs, and staying informed with the Stop Scanning Me campaign.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37879723)

- The discussion focuses on a petition against the EU's proposed chat control measures, sparking debate around potential misuse that could lead to oppressive regimes and power abuse.
- Some participants argue for a balance between maintaining privacy and countering online crimes like child abuse and terrorism, reflecting differing viewpoints on how internet communication should be regulated.
- The conversation includes suggestions for leveraging open-source software and hardware solutions to guarantee privacy and prevent unwarranted surveillance.

## [Snowden Archive – documents leaked by Snowden](https://github.com/iamcryptoki/snowden-archive)

- The repository consists of leaked documents from Edward Snowden, disclosing NSA's practices such as surveillance, intelligence activities, spying on foreign governments, and computer system hacking.
- Documents reveal the NSA's role in targeted killings and its link to multiple spying scandals.
- This overview paints a picture of the extent and depth of the NSA's global surveillance and covert activities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37880033)

- An online forum is abuzz with discussions about Edward Snowden's leaked documents and their potential implications on defense sector individuals.
- Members express a mix of concerns about the sensitivity of the data and its possible security repercussions, alongside frustration over undisclosed parts of these documents.
- The conversation extends to aspects of governmental transparency, journalism, and the ethics surrounding leaking confidential information.

## [Google has sent internet into 'spiral of decline', claims DeepMind co-founder](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2023/10/14/google-internet-spiral-of-decline-deepmind-mustafa-suleyman/)

- The co-founder of Google's AI lab, DeepMind, asserts that the quality of the internet has diminished due to the spread of "clickbait" in Google's search results.
- His claim suggests that a focus on generating quick and extensive user engagement, often through sensational content or misleading titles, has negatively affected users' online experiences.
- This criticism underscores challenging questions about the real-world implications of search optimization strategies and their potential harm to the Internet's credibility and quality.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37887562)

- The article is concerned with various issues contributing to the perceived degradation of internet quality, including the ramifications of Google's ranking algorithms, irritating ads, privacy issues, and scamming fears.
- It raises issues over Google's dominance and the limitations of AI for search and information retrieval, as well as the ethical implications of personal beliefs in a capitalist system.
- Solutions like a sustainable web and improved search engine curation are proposed, emphasizing the complexities and challenges of the evolving internet landscape.

## [The British Mosquito once carried Niels Bohr in its bomb bay](https://www.thedrive.com/the-war-zone/the-nuclear-scientist-and-the-warplane-that-became-britains-most-unlikely-airliner)

- The British Mosquito aircraft was instrumental during World War II in conveying crucial supplies between Scotland and Sweden, disrupting the Germans' capacity to secure necessary resources.
- These activities played a significant part in the victory of the Allies.
- The Mosquito aircraft's versatility and expertise in various functions made them a potent adversary against the Luftwaffe, the German Air Force.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37884749)

- The primary discussion revolves around the story of Niels Bohr being transported in a British Mosquito aircraft's bomb bay.
- The conversation involves various elements including imaginative imagery, anamorphic movie stills, open-source stable diffusion, manufacturing challenges of the Mosquito, and personal war-related anecdotes.
- There are debates on the story's accuracy and verifiability, with some participants questioning the entertainment elements used in the narrative and others citing sources to support its historical credibility.

## [Decline in independent activity as a cause of decline in child mental health](https://cdn2.psychologytoday.com/assets/2023-02/Children%27s%20Independence%20IN%20PRESS%20.pdf)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37887071)

- The discussions emphasize the potential negative implications on children's mental health due to their declined independent activity, and the disproportionate targeting of poor black and brown women by child welfare authorities.
- They suggest changes to laws around neglect and endangerment, creating walkable neighborhoods, promoting trusting communities, and reconsidering the dangers of bike paths along main roads in a car-centric culture.
- The discussions also address societal issues such as overprotection of children, excessive parental control, declining child autonomy, and the effects of declining church attendance and union participation on the atomization of American society.

## [Germany's terrible trains are no joke for a nation built on efficiency](https://www.theguardian.com/business/2023/oct/14/its-the-same-daily-misery-germanys-terrible-trains-are-no-joke-for-a-nation-built-on-efficiency)

- Deutsche Bahn, Germany's national rail operator, is facing criticism due to service disruptions characterized by delays, cancellations, and prolonged closures of track sections for upgrades.
- Passenger dissatisfaction is escalating, with record delays recorded in 2022; critics attribute these issues to long-term underinvestment and Deutsche Bahn's unique structure, being solely owned by the German government.
- Although the German state committed to investing an additional €40bn in the railways, there's skepticism regarding whether this investment will resolve the foundational problems.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37881767)

- German train system's inadequacy is causing interruptions to international routes, leading to Switzerland denying entry to German trains.
- Germany is lagging in cargo transportation by train while Switzerland is developing its trans-European rail tunnel, raising concerns on Germany's efficient public infrastructure reputation.
- Various comments identify factors including insufficient investment, obsolete technology, and challenges in upgrading infrastructure, resulting in prolonged train delays. They also uncover issues such as difficulty in sourcing skilled workers, impact of German mentality hindering infrastructure enhancements, and substantial train suicides causing delays.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Anything longer ago than yesterday should just say the actual date" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Anything%20longer%20ago%20than%20yesterday%20should%20just%20say%20the%20actual%20date&subheading=Sunday%2C%20October%2015%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
