---
slug: '/2023/10/16'
---

# 2023-10-16

## [Mastercard Should Stop Selling Our Data](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2023/10/mastercard-should-stop-selling-our-data)

- The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) has partnered with the U.S. Public Interest Research Group (U.S. PIRG) in a campaign urging Mastercard to restrict data collection and cease selling cardholder information.
- Mastercard's current monetization strategies, involving the analysis of transaction data to categorize cardholders, are reportedly infringing on consumer privacy and trust.
- The EFF is pressuring Mastercard to alter these data practices in a bid to maintain cardholder trust and respect their privacy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37892684)

- The discussion emphasizes concerns about data privacy and the potential misuse of consumer data by major credit card companies like Visa and Mastercard.
- Alternatives to these companies, such as prepaid cards and cash, are explored, highlighting the need for varied payment systems to challenge Visa and Mastercard's market dominance.
- The advantages and disadvantages of using credit cards, including specific ones such as the Amex Platinum Card, are weighed, with a focus on privacy apprehensions related to data gathering and deployment by companies.

## [Finland to vote against the EU mass surveillance and encryption ban directive](https://dawn.fi/uutiset/2023/10/14/eu-csam-suomi-eduskunta-kanta)

- The Great Committee of the Finnish parliament expressed reservations about the EU's proposal to ban strong encryption, stating that this could compromise end-to-end cybersecurity.
- They reiterated their support for online child protection but argued against any compromise on encryption and bulk surveillance, advocating for focus on clearly identified individuals instead.
- A decision on this contentious issue from member states of the EU is anticipated soon.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37891886)

- Finland has publicly opposed an EU directive aimed at prohibiting mass surveillance and encryption, contending that it infringes on privacy rights and replaces judicial warrants with general scanning.
- The discussion raises concerns about the enforceability of the ban, potential spying on regular citizens, and debates the implications of living in a fully transparent world.
- There are discourses on the critical role of encryption in preserving privacy, the potential unconstitutional characteristics of the law, and varying opinions from different nations. It also brings attention to the lack of popular awareness about the EU's structure and decision-making processes.

## [Lotus 1-2-3 For Linux](https://lock.cmpxchg8b.com/linux123.html)

- The author managed to port Lotus 1-2-3, a vintage software, to Linux by recovering lost files and employing various hacks.
- Focus is given to compatibility concerns, involving system calls and object file conversions, alongside removing symbols from object files and writing wrappers for incompatible functions.
- Some struggles regarding termios and licensing are mentioned, but overall, the author considers the switch to Linux a success.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37889666)

- The article announces the availability of the spreadsheet program, Lotus 1-2-3, for Linux, stressing its importance in preserving data.
- The conversation also revolves around nostalgia for the past BBS (Bulletin Board System) scene, highlighting a resurgence of its ethos and 80s/90s retro culture.
- Issues on software piracy, the archiving of synthesizer manuals, personal anecdotes, targeted advertising, and potential manipulation by tech firms are also discussed in the article.

## [Signtime.apple: One-on-one sign language interpreting by Apple](https://www.signtime.apple/applecare/us-EN/asl)

- 'SignTime', a service providing one-on-one sign language interpreting for shopping and support sessions, is currently unavailable.
- Users are advised to retry accessing the service later.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37890176)

- Apple has introduced a new service titled Signtime.apple, designed to offer individual sign language interpretation for customer support, catering specifically to customers who use American Sign Language (ASL).
- The service enables deaf or hard-of-hearing customers to interact with Apple representatives using ASL via video chat, replacing the necessity for written communication or interpreters during phone calls.
- There are concerns over potential spam calls, audit trails and abuse, along with confusion regarding Apple's domain names and security implications. Still, Apple's commitment to quality and customer experience has been positively recognized.

## [SSH-audit: SSH server and client security auditing](https://github.com/jtesta/ssh-audit)

- The repository jtesta/ssh-audit has been updated with enhancements for auditing SSH server and client configurations, now supporting Python 3.7-3.11.
- The updates include recommendations, security information, pre-built packages, a web front-end, new policies, bug fixes, and enhanced compatibility in Ubuntu 22.04 LTS.
- It also features expanded host keys, key exchanges, ciphers, MACs, client software auditing, and a JSON output option for more versatility.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37892028)

- The conversation centers on the significance of securing SSH servers and clients, highlighting issues with default settings’ security.
- The use of different algorithms and the reliability of Ed25519 keys are brought into discussion.
- There is a diverging opinion on the security of Trust on First Use (TOFU) in cryptographic protocols and whether further verification steps are needed.

## [Omnivore – free, open source, read-it-later App](https://omnivore.app/)

- Login Omnivore is an open-source read-it-later app intended for extensive readers, which allows the saving of various types of content for later, distraction-free reading.
- Users can not only add notes and highlights but also organize and sync their reading lists across all devices.
- The app features text-to-speech functionality and integration with popular Personal Knowledge Management (PKM) systems, providing users complete control over their reading library.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37890742)

- Omnivore is a free, open-source read-it-later app that links with RSS and email newsletters, but users have raised concerns about its future monetization strategy and the lack of some features.
- The application currently only supports iOS, but the developers have plans to launch a Windows version. Unique features include the ability to export highlights, use plugins for Obsidian and Notion, and self-host servers.
- Omnivore competes with apps like Pocket, Raindrop.io, Instapaper, and Readwise. Though users find its self-hosting instructions complex compared to rivals, and its funding model remains ambiguous.

## [Mark Twain at Stormfield (1909) [video]](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=leYj--P4CgQ)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37890369)

- The main topic is the use of advanced technologies like AI to enhance old films, specifically an upgraded clip of Mark Twain from 1909.
- Viewpoints diverge between those in favor of improvements for a better viewing experience, and advocates for historical accuracy and preserving original artistic intent.
- Along with film colorization and addition of modern music, the debate extends to the application of AI in replicating historical figures in films, raising questions about accuracy and reliability of AI-generated images.

## [Causal inference as a blind spot of data scientists](https://dzidas.com/ml/2023/10/15/blind-spot-ds/)

- The article underscores the significance of causal inference in data science and business decision-making.
- Data science community is recently prioritizing causal inference, implementing it using methods like causal graphical models, instrumental variables, and DoubleML.
- The narrative emphasizes contemplating confounding variables in causal inference, offering resources for additional learning.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37890685)

- Conversations center on the significance, obstacles, and constraints of causal inference in decision-making and data analysis.
- Randomized control trials (RCTs) are deemed the gold standard but are costly and time-intensive. Observational causal inference, a quicker, less expensive alternative, is not widely accepted yet.
- Efforts are in progress to make causal inference more reachable and replicable, but issues like model assessment and scalability still remain. There's also a divide in opinion about the usefulness and feasibility of causal inference in data interpretation.

## [Why Async Rust?](https://without.boats/blog/why-async-rust/)

- The article investigates the application and evolution of concurrency mechanisms in Rust programming language, especially focusing on async/await syntax.
- It delves into the challenges in building intricate futures, the transition from green threads, and how iterators and futures are compiled into state machines.
- With the description of successful use of Rust in network services, the author also raises concerns about the Rust ecosystem being overly dependent on async/await, and proposes potential enhancements to it.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37891020)

- The discussion pertains to the merits and complications of utilizing async programming in Rust, emphasizing its cleaner composition, easier cancellation, and reduced memory overhead relative to threads.
- The dialogue addresses the difficulties of context switching, the selection of HTTP servers in Rust, and the increasing prevalence of async/await in the language.
- There is debate concerning the use of Rust in web development and secure systems with a focus on memory safety; the conversation underscores the potential for Rust to gain wider adoption across different domains.

## [Cockpit: Web-based graphical interface for servers](https://cockpit-project.org/)

- Cockpit is a user-friendly, web-based graphical interface for servers that allows users to manage their systems via a GUI, but it fully supports existing command line tool workflows.
- It possesses various features, including network configuration, storage management, virtual machine creation, troubleshooting, and enhancing functions with apps and custom modules.
- The software uses system APIs and commands, supports single-sign-on authentication, runs on demand to conserve resources, and is compatible across major distributions and web browsers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37895446)

- The article delves into user experiences with Cockpit, a web-based interface for server management, highlighting mixed responses.
- Critiques revolve around its relatively slow development and lesser features compared to similar tools, but others appreciate it for remote management of libvirt and KVM.
- Also mentioned is the author's personal experience with using Cockpit, finding it handy on their Raspberry Pi running Fedora, but wishing for doas support.

## ["Interactive" Italian Poetry for English Speakers](https://italianpoetry.it/)

- The author has developed a tool aimed at making Italian poetry digestible for English speakers by providing detailed translations, usage notes, and extra context.
- The tool was built using simple technology, suggesting potential for user-friendly navigation and accessibility.
- They are actively seeking feedback on their methodology, indicating their intent to continually improve this tool.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37888606)

- ItalianPoetry.it is an online platform that allows English speakers to explore and listen to Italian poetry, with plans to expand its offering to include Latin and German.
- Users have given the website positive feedback and they've suggested improvements, including enhanced speed options for playback and videos of poets reciting their work.
- The website's creator plans on making its poem repository public, allowing users to submit requests for specific works, indicating a move towards a more collaborative, user-responsive platform.

## [GPL-3.0 licensed BIOS for Intel 8088 based computers](https://github.com/skiselev/8088_bios)

- The GitHub repository provides an open-source BIOS for Micro 8088, NuXT, and Xi 8088 systems, including contributions, BIOS images, build instructions, and different version's release notes.
- The repository acknowledges contributors who have been instrumental in its development and sustenance.
- The repository outlines future updates and improvements to be made, indicating it's an ongoing project.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37893555)

- The article discusses a GPL-3.0 licensed BIOS designed for Intel 8088-based computers, mentioning its omission of ROM BASIC and the potential to make this BIOS ROM-able.
- It compares the 8088 and 8086 CPUs, highlighting the differences, and explores related projects including open-source BIOS.
- There's a mention of NASA using IBM PC and XT systems, a bug in book8088, the process of overclocking, and running the GNU environment on an 8088 CPU.

## [Critical Ignoring as a Core Competence for Digital Citizens](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/09637214221121570)

- The article underscores the value of "critical ignoring," a digital citizenship skill, aimed at filtering out inaccurate and low-quality information.
- Methods advocated include self-nudging, lateral reading, and disregarding malicious actors, with suggestions for teaching these skills in educational institutions and implementing content-moderation policies on virtual platforms.
- Emphasizing on the cultivation of new mental habits to defend against misinformation, the article provides various references on different facets of misinformation and strategies to counteract it.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37889844)

- The discussions on Hacker News are focusing on "critical ignoring" as a crucial skill for digital citizens to avoid non-productive online conversations.
- A necessity for robust social norms, polite communication devoid of profanity and sarcasm, and persuasive discourse is highlighted. Limitations of online forums are acknowledged.
- Discussion also foregrounds the consequences of the attention economy and advertising, the significance of media literacy, critical evaluation of information, the risk of misinformation on social platforms, and the need to prioritize quality content.

## [MemGPT: Towards LLMs as Operating Systems](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.08560)

- The paper presents MemGPT, a system designed to enhance the performance of large language models (LLMs) by providing extended context within their constrained context window.
- Inspired by hierarchical memory systems in traditional operating systems, MemGPT uses virtual context management for enhanced performance.
- The system, evaluated in domains like document analysis and multi-session chat, showed superior capabilities beyond current LLMs' limitations. The MemGPT code and data are now available for public experimentation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37894403)

- MemGPT, an open-source project, aims to teach language models memory management like operating systems, featuring an implemented Discord chatbot.
- The discussion delves into the trade-off between the model managing its own memory or having a separate agent for this task, exploring diverging views on the effectiveness of language models.
- The conversation also emphasizes the need for clear communication in research, introducing the concept of "virtual context management," a method to overcome token limitations in AI models.

## ['Terminating Internet Access over Piracy Claims Is Drastic and Overbroad'](https://torrentfreak.com/terminating-internet-access-over-piracy-claims-is-drastic-and-overbroad-231014/)

- Internet Service Provider (ISP), Grande Communications, is contesting a $47 million piracy damage lawsuit owed to record labels, arguing ISPs should not bear responsibility for copyright infringements based on third-party claims.
- Grande invokes a recent Supreme Court decision favoring Twitter, asserting that terminating internet access due to copyright claims is overly broad, impacts innocent users, and restricts broadband infrastructure investment.
- Several telecom industry groups backing Grande also reference the Supreme Court ruling, suggesting that charging Grande with piracy liability could have been a mistake.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37888948)

- The article highlights the threat of terminating internet access due to piracy claims and the need for net neutrality to maintain a fair online environment.
- It brings attention to the controversial role of Internet Service Providers (ISPs) in monitoring data transfers in relation to copyright laws and intellectual property.
- The piece calls for a reassessment of existing copyright policies suitable for the digital age, along with discussions surrounding the ethics of piracy and the impacts on content creators.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Mastercard Should Stop Selling Our Data" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Mastercard%20Should%20Stop%20Selling%20Our%20Data&subheading=Monday%2C%20October%2016%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
