---
slug: '/2023/10/18'
---

# 2023-10-18

## [Free IRS-run tax filing pilot to be available in 13 states](https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/irs-advances-innovative-direct-file-project-for-2024-tax-season-free-irs-run-pilot-option-projected-to-be-available-for-eligible-taxpayers-in-13-states)

- The IRS has unveiled a Direct File pilot program for the 2024 tax season, enabling eligible taxpayers in certain states to submit their federal tax returns directly and for free.
- Participating states include Arizona, California, Massachusetts, and New York. The Direct File service will be mobile-friendly, and structured as interview-based, covering specified income types and tax credits.
- The pilot's purpose is to evaluate the Direct File program's feasibility and efficiency in gathering crucial data for its further development. The IRS anticipates more refined details and changes before official launch.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37920633)

- The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has initiated a pilot program named "Direct File" in 13 states to offer free tax filing for certain taxpayers with simpler returns, typically lower-income individuals.
- The program is sparking discussions about the complicated tax filing system in the US, the roles of private tax filing companies, and the ongoing demand for a more straightforward tax code.
- The IRS's intervention by providing free online tax services has triggered a dialogue about the effects on private tax filing companies and the necessity of government involvement in simplifying tax processes.

## [Using Goatse to Stop App Theft](https://joshcsimmons.com/post/H4sIAAAAAAAA%2F0xVTY%2FjNgy951c8TA%2BzC0yCQQ9F0dte2gYosIedbdEjbdG2dmRRFakE7q8vKCebXvIBySTfB59%2FwFeNecZvQqYME3wxKfhUCt4WnuxwOKPyyNnShqHFZCAMVa7K9TiQcsBVasBMK%2BMabcG6YaqRc1CMlBIHfPmnX%2Fmg%2Ffs0yvrxhPPzilKlBe%2BptMEWMlz5%2BcIYmDNoSH2elWI2ihkENaawYa7SCmRCoJg20GjxwmjKVSEXrrCFUUgNP2GVbItCKlQQWEs0RhZDEIdNeUNlSqBw4WrRuTgdDn%2B2ZK2y4hpTAl84o8TxHWRYJbAatI0jq0JNamQ9HQ5%2FsxrXQBsks0%2B3bhglJRqkkklVzCKz8%2FG0E%2FEEyh39EhXaaqlR%2BcWHr4yrf5hk9UpTrGrHQjOjsrZkemercn62jvdBLoI4ZycXUBkajRVUGU9dJJrnyrNP9HQ767UWUcMmrYJKQcwaQ0dBGfHX6g%2Bq7Ddt4Q0j5S6HM4fqDDXGVGXda5QqoY12OhzeHN1KgeG981xjF8jLGnSRlgIWujCOXZaBR2rKd89EBWEkXTDKFUdcGUEccm0ZFBSSd%2FQuq9O5n670zi49uxdlRbQXRHtWfGtqmKRiahlHDO3RMRqu5O0KqUbJjuEbj7a7%2BmbpF6isbIt7p7S694zZOFuUTCl5Q%2B6%2BLYk2%2FHV%2B%2B%2F3z1zcf9YSzT0Azxazm7mBbRNF7Br5wksL1rr%2FrNVDO7mnvUaS0om7Ful39xgnnCee%2BksFFolJe%2FD%2BnyBf%2BH7kcvSIGl4fZN%2BFxNjBaOU5VsoEGaYbrTWFoG3SssTguf6i0Oi6kjFLjyC7Mh27fhXMXrhXllFz9jycPjdEbuBY0uJOU2TnrO%2BFekMwW%2F2UnD%2BYWudLW3cJYyXevo66sRbLGHgWddBMEwfVhm54VJqAQ3CrStYDy2Gq0DUVSHDe%2FsIfC7MSB1j7zrZOK%2B92zZYd%2FRuAxBg73bqSonMMtWZhq2vDj6%2Burdulr5k7o%2BI64%2Bo7esrT7hpCdrpVV%2FUhb4RrXIh6cPauiOQUl0djXzRv0BZzuKxDYeLxvvN%2F2ro%2B1dLINC%2BnOxCN75spkHlU0Lm6JlbM93PaLY0vxwsfAJckGwuq%2BvzDmffwdizNrSOxp%2BvMtWW6z0B4%2Ba8w%2BxB%2Fsvok%2BBgiJVX01xQ2Bo8PxH%2B7q1t83j1hxjqP2baF9j3ek6sU9TPRlT2Bf28RztLiSsRvSadSXXrl7IUs3QJV0fw%2BQfbfE0cnz2BoXyjM7LE9%2Fiyuf8DkzPLrvPpAJSeTdJ43ZObiPu3db47x4cny%2F1IvBU6By2hDiNHk2G95j7tWKVKN0OvwHAAD%2F%2FwMASc5Y2XAHAAA%3D)

- A browser-based word game named Sqword was found hosted on game aggregating sites without the creator's consent, leading to a theft of ad revenue.
- As a response, the creator replaced the game with a notorious shock image on these offending websites.
- The incident highlights the risk of using iFrames to display content from other websites, as it can result in losing control over the content displayed.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37917012)

- The discussion primarily addresses various topics, specifically hotlinking, the infamous "Goatse" internet image, website theft, shock content, and website security vulnerabilities.
- Participants exchange personal experiences, viewpoints, and discuss the potential legal implications associated with these issues.
- The involvement of various stakeholders presents a multi-dimensional perspective on these topics, emphasizing the continual evolution of the Internet and its associated challenges.

## [Small business owners say they're pressured to hire off-duty cops for security](https://minnesotareformer.com/2023/10/17/small-business-owners-they-are-pressured-to-hire-off-duty-mpd-cops-for-security/)

- Small business owners in Minneapolis report being pressured into hiring off-duty police officers for security, citing fear of negative repercussions from law enforcement if they don't comply.
- The city aims to contest a 1997 injunction that restricts their management of police officers' side security roles due to worries about corruption and racial prejudice within the force.
- Especially among immigrant and minority owners, concerns about high costs and unsatisfactory performance from the hired officers underline this issue's complexity and controversy.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37914243)

- The discussion explores a broad spectrum of issues, including policing, corruption, security services, gun control, and the involvement of businesses and government.
- It addresses police misconduct, abuse of power, concerns about corruption, and alleged conflicts of interest when off-duty officers are hired for security roles.
- Topics of debate include the effectiveness of gun control measures, various strategies for public safety, the societal responsibility of businesses, retail theft, and role of insurance in compensating for losses.

## [Frasier Fantasy](https://edward-la-barbera.itch.io/frasier-fantasy)

- "Frasier Fantasy" is a new turn-based RPG game that reveres the TV show "Frasier," in which players embody the role of Dr. Frasier Crane and take part in numerous adventures.
- Filled with Easter Eggs and references to the TV show, the game can be played using arrow keys or WASD for movement with "J" and "K" operating as A and B respectively.
- The game has received positive feedback from players for successfully replicating the ambiance of the TV show with enjoyable references and jokes, and is available for download with an optional donation feature.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37916855)

- The comments discuss topics related to the sitcom Frasier, including the idea of creating AI-generated episodes.
- There's discussion about a new season, comparing it to the original series, and potential financial aspects of the show.
- Viewers also comment on the show's connections to Cheers and Park Street Under, the portrayal of callers on Frasier, and Kelsey Grammer's other projects, expressing a mix of excitement, skepticism, enjoyment, and nostalgia.

## [Encrypting private data and private communications is now an ethical duty](https://blog.tripu.info/encrypt/)

- The article highlights the critical role of end-to-end encryption in safeguarding privacy against potential mass surveillance laws, noting the risk posed to whistleblowers, journalists, and healthcare professionals.
- Tools such as VPNs, encryption protocols, and secure messaging platforms are recommended to protect digital communication. Also, free software, open standards, and blockchain technology serve to foster a humanist digital landscape.
- The author urges collective action and civil disobedience to combat the implementation of intrusive surveillance laws.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37913256)

- The article addresses the ethical responsibility of encrypting private data and communications, focusing on the relationship among ethics, laws, and encryption.
- It underscores the role of tech professionals in educating about privacy tools, highlights the significance of privacy in the light of rising government surveillance, and the difficulties of making privacy measures user-friendly.
- The article also contains debates about the political situation in Poland, undemocratic allegations, and the risks of privacy loss and possible manipulation in the digital era.

## [Ishkur's Guide to Electronic Music](https://music.ishkur.com/)

- The symbol "+ − H" is indicative of the addition or subtraction of hydrogen in a chemical reaction or formula.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37919241)

- Debates on Hacker News and in comment sections focus on the use of AI models for classifying and recommending music genres, with opinions divided between human intervention and using data from platforms like Spotify.
- There is a discussion concerning the scarcity of new genres and subcultures in electronic music, with some relating it to the lack of notability standards, while others pinpoint the emergence of smaller online niches.
- Conversations also revolve around the 'Guide to Electronic Music' website, its genre classifications, artist recommendations, and the enduring popularity and nostalgia it holds. Issues over music genre legitimacy and suggestions for vocal-free electronic music are also aired.

## [Tech CEO sentenced to 5 years in IP address scheme](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2023/10/tech-ceo-sentenced-to-5-years-in-ip-address-scheme/)

- Amir Golestan, CEO of Micfo LLC, has been given a five-year prison sentence for wire fraud involving false companies to acquire over 735,000 IP addresses from the American Registry for Internet Numbers (ARIN).
- Golestan admitted guilt for 20 counts of wire fraud and must compensate ARIN as part of his punishment.
- This case underlines how the dwindling availability of IP addresses has made them highly valuable commodities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37917597)

- A tech CEO received a five-year prison sentence due to wire fraud involving an IP address scheme.
- The discussion also touches on the accountability of organizations like Amazon in thwarting the sale of counterfeit goods, as well as unique aspects of the US justice system.
- Topics ranging from law enforcement agencies, implications of crime, the IP address marketplace, tax evasion, fraud, the usage of pseudonyms, and critiques of the penal system are also examined.

## [Psytrance Guide](https://psytranceguide.com/)

- This guide provides comprehensive insights into various subgenres of Psytrance music, such as Psychedelic, Progressive Psy, and Minimal Psy, featuring descriptions, famous artists, and labels.
- It includes Spotify playlists corresponding to each subgenre, offering listeners a curated selection of songs.
- The guide also explores Chillout music, detailing its linkage to the psytrance scene with highlighted notable artists and labels.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37923732)

- The online discussions mainly focus on the characteristics, creation, and evolution of psytrance music and its sub-genres.
- Users share valuable information like tips, recommendations, and resources for producing and enjoying this type of music, including aspects like the importance of tempo, and the mixing techniques of DJs.
- Topics also delve into the cultural aspect, exploring influences of cults and how music genres are categorized, providing a comprehensive understanding of psytrance and related genres.

## [Making CRDTs More Efficient](https://jakelazaroff.com/words/making-crdts-98-percent-more-efficient/)

- The blog post delves into strategies for enhancing the efficiency of Collaborative Real-Time Editors (CRDTs), specifically for a pixel art editor using techniques like hex codes, storing UUIDs (Universal Unique Identifiers) and colors in tables, and applying run-length encoding.
- Besides, it elaborates on data compression approaches like run-length and binary encoding to lessen the data size and discusses unique ways to compress CRDT state data through diverse optimization techniques leading to an impressive 98% reduction in size.
- It further mentions about CRDT libraries that have integrated these optimization techniques.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37915934)

- The article suggests enhancing Conflict-free Replicated Data Types (CRDTs) efficiency through compression schemes and alternative methods for generating UUIDs (Universally Unique Identifiers).
- It discusses converting JSON-based data structures to binary format, further compressing them using algorithms like brotli and LZ4, and the potential of using LZ4 compression for over the wire data transfer.
- The possibility of exploiting lossless image compression algorithms like PNG in CRDTs was also explored, while performance issues with demos were discussed for improvement.

## [4K4D: Real-Time 4D View Synthesis at 4K Resolution](https://zju3dv.github.io/4k4d/)

- The paper introduces a method named 4K4D dedicated to real-time synthesis of dynamic 3D scenes at 4K resolution.
- It presents a 4D point cloud representation, which supports hardware rasterization leading to swift rendering.
- A new hybrid appearance model and a unique differentiable depth peeling algorithm are developed to boost the quality and learn the model from RGB videos. This outdoes the rendering speed and quality of previous methods.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37923801)

- Researchers have developed a real-time 4D view synthesis system capable of rendering 4K videos, with potential uses in Virtual Reality (VR) and Augmented Reality (AR) environments.
- The system often requires a high-performance computer, with prospective applications stretching from sports to concerts and filmmaking.
- Commenters highlight impressive progress in dynamic scene rendering using NeRF (Neural Radiance Fields) technology, even sparking speculation on their possible uses in holograms and holographic displays.

## [Llemma: An Open Language Model for Mathematics](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.10631)

- The paper presents Llemma, a highly advanced language model specifically designed for mathematics.
- Llemma's superior performance is discussed, highlighting its edge over other existing models in the MATH benchmark as well as its proficiency in tool usage and formal theorem proving.
- All artifacts and resources associated with the model are disclosed for open use, making this valuable for those interested in Computation and Language, Artificial Intelligence, and Logic in Computer Science.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37918327)

- The article details an open language model for mathematics named Llemma, highlighting its strengths and improvements over other unique prover models, especially in autocomplete, translation, and reference summarization.
- However, it is noted that Llemma lags in effectively proving theorems when compared to specialized prover models.
- Contextualizing the use of these models, the article demonstrates finding the determinant of the product of two matrices, which resulted in 24, adding practical application to its theoretical discussion.

## [What happened to blogging for the hell of it?](https://blog.whiona.me/what-happened-to-blogging-for-the-hell-of-it/)

- The blog author expresses dissatisfaction with the increased emphasis on monetization, gaining followers, and driving traffic in blogging, which they believe detracts from its original purpose as a self-expression medium.
- They criticize the widespread use of business-centric prompts and listicles which are tailored for profitability and productivity, rather than genuine content creation.
- Despite the industry's shift, the author plans to remain focused on writing passionately about topics of their interest. They highlighted their intention to write a future post about Baldur's Gate 3, a video game.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37920697)

- The decline of traditional blogging is due to a variety of factors such as the saturation of low-quality content, the influence of content marketing and SEO, the rise of social media, financial instability, and the risk of harassment.
- The shift towards video platforms like YouTube and TikTok, the enforcement of EU laws on US companies, and the commercialization of the internet are also causing changes in the online content creation landscape.
- Disadvantages such as privacy concerns and self-censorship when sharing personal content online play a significant role, as do debates on personal expression versus monetisation and audience size.

## [Patlabor 2, the Movie: realistic portrayal of modern aerial combat](https://taskandpurpose.com/culture/realistic-aerial-combat-movie-patlabor-2/)

- "Patlabor 2: The Movie" receives acclaim for its accurate representation of modern aerial combat, noted particularly for a scene that demonstrates ground-controlled interception (GCI) with attention to technical details.
- The scene portrays a cyber attack resulting in a simulated engagement between friendly aircraft, featuring GPS spoofing, hacking, and signal jamming.
- The authenticity of the scene is enhanced by period-accurate technology, realistic dialogue, and tactical correctness acknowledged by military experts as the most genuine depiction of air operations in film history.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37916306)

- The article analyzes the portrayal of aerial combat in the anime film "Patlabor 2", with a hypothesis that cultural differences and US military influence may enhance its realism.
- The related discussion thread broadens the topics to include military science fiction and the realism in anime and manga, overshadowed by a general discontent with the scarcity of inspiring options in the genre.
- The conversation extends to recommending more anime and films related to real-world themes and a common interest in more grounded techno-thrillers.

## [Superlinear Returns](http://paulgraham.com/superlinear.html)

- The article explores the concept of superlinear returns, where results surpass expectations, commonly found in areas like business, power, and knowledge, with exponential growth and thresholds as major contributors.
- The importance of tapping into these returns for success is highlighted, recommending individuals to prioritize learning and jobs that offer compounding to realize exponential growth.
- It delves into the opportunities and factors facilitating exceptional job performance and discusses the increasing significance of valuable discovery in income inequality. It also addresses potential threats to equity and the effects of parental pressure on career decisions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37919949)

- The article discusses a range of subjects including superlinear returns, the value of Paul Graham's essays, and the connection between power and wealth.
- It also delves into the role of economic factors in politics, income inequality and control exerted by successful individuals in society.
- Further, it examines the implications and challenges of artificial intelligence, information distribution and decision-making in society.

## [Love after life: Richard Feynman's letter to his departed wife (2017)](https://www.themarginalian.org/2017/10/17/richard-feynman-arline-letter/)

- The Marginalian is a website offering ad-free content across broad subjects like art, science, philosophy, and poetry, and it is seeking donations for its sustenance.
- The article recounts the story of physicist Richard Feynman and his wife Arline, emphasizing the challenges they faced in their marriage.
- Another prominent aspect is Feynman's stance on scientific implications for mystical phenomena, including a heart-rending letter he wrote to his deceased wife.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37914958)

- The article delves into physicist Richard Feynman's portrayal, examining both his heartfelt letter to his deceased wife and allegations of abuse and infidelity in his life.
- It sparks questions about the simplification of public figures into binary 'good' or 'evil' and the appropriate timing of raising criticisms - during their prime or after their fall.
- The discussions extend to complex topics such as the intricacies of human morality, impacts of personal actions on public opinions, and broader themes like sexual agency and public education.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Free IRS-run tax filing pilot to be available in 13 states" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Free%20IRS-run%20tax%20filing%20pilot%20to%20be%20available%20in%2013%20states&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20October%2017%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
