---
slug: '/2023/10/20'
---

# 2023-10-20

## [ArXiv receives $10M for upgrades](https://news.cornell.edu/stories/2023/10/research-repository-arxiv-receives-10m-upgrades)

- Cornell Tech has procured over $10 million in gifts and grants from the Simons Foundation and National Science Foundation for the support of arXiv, a repository for open-access scholarly articles.
- The funding will facilitate the migration of arXiv to the cloud and the modernization of its code, improving accessibility for researchers. New search and recommendation methods will also be integrated.
- Founded in 1991, arXiv is now run by Cornell Tech and has been a prominent platform for sharing scholarly publications across various fields. The latest funding support will facilitate continued innovation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37949656)

- ArXiv, the online repository for scientific papers, has received a $10 million funding for upgrades. The hope is to improve services without compromising functionality, with particular emphasis on bettering accessibility and accommodating web-native papers.
- Users expressed concern over reliance on funding from major tech companies, sparking a debate about suitable funding sources, including industry giants or the National Science Foundation.
- Discussions also circled around the cost of living in the Bay Area where ArXiv operates, touching on expenses and perceptions of middle-class income.

## [Build your own BitTorrent](https://app.codecrafters.io/courses/bittorrent/overview)

- CodeCrafters presents a challenge to construct a BitTorrent client that can decipher a .torrent file and download content from a peer, aimed at educating participants on torrent file structure and related concepts.
- The challenge unfolds in stages, beginning with the decoding of bencoded strings and subsequently, bencoded integers.
- Users who have undertaken this challenge applaud the systematic guide and immediate feedback, showing CodeCrafters' effectiveness in offering programming challenges for seasoned developers in various domains like Git, Redis, Docker, SQLite, and Grep.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37941075)

- The author shares their insights from participating in the "Build your own BitTorrent" challenge on Codecrafters, shedding light on the challenges faced in wider adoption of BitTorrent clients.
- Codecrafters, a platform providing coding challenges in different programming languages, plans to introduce further challenges based on user votes, including BitTorrent-based Linux package managers and performance comparisons.
- Issues were identified on the course's platform, such as a lock issue, and are promised to be promptly resolved by the website owner.

## [Early Europeans ate seaweed for thousands of years](https://www.smithsonianmag.com/smart-news/early-europeans-ate-seaweed-and-aquatic-plants-180983102/)

- Archaeologists found evidence that early Europeans consumed seaweed and other aquatic plants, as per an analysis of fossilized dental plaque.
- A study published in Nature Communications analyzed samples from 74 early humans across 28 European sites and found traces of seaweed and aquatic plants in 26 samples.
- These findings challenge the assumption that the advent of farming reduced the consumption of these aquatic foods and present an argument for their nutritional benefits and environmental sustainability.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37943843)

- The text highlights the historical and cultural importance of seaweed as a food source across various cultures, in addition to its usage in cuisine and its health benefits.
- It discusses the decreased consumption of seaweed in Europe due to industrialization, reflecting cultural change tied to progress.
- The text also explores the on-going debate about the benefits and risks of consuming seaweed, including its nutritional content and possible exposure to pollutants.

## [Nota is a language for writing documents, like academic papers and blog posts](https://nota-lang.org/#def-nota)

- Nota is a new language designed for creating documents, such as academic papers and blog posts, that compiles to JavaScript programs, making the documents viewable on any device with a web browser.
- Nota's unique selling point lies in its ability to represent the structure of the content, creating dynamic and accessible documents without the need for extensive web-development knowledge.
- Nota is currently evolving and is open to early adopters who could play a crucial role in shaping the future of document languages.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37950952)

- The article focuses on the development of Nota, a document writing language, as a potential alternative to complex markup languages such as TeX and LaTeX.
- It outlines the challenges inherent in existing tools and emphasizes the need for innovation in document formats, including the inclusion of dynamic elements for interactive experiences.
- The piece also dissects the advantages and disadvantages of PDF and EPUB formats, the hurdles in supplanting LaTeX, and the broader community's varying views on the utility of Nota.

## [Trucking startup Convoy closes operations with no buyer](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-10-19/bezos-backed-startup-convoy-closes-operations-with-no-buyer)

- Convoy, the trucking startup backed by Jeff Bezos and Bill Gates, is ceasing operations due to a failed search for an acquirer.
- The CEO, Dan Lewis, has informed the employees that Thursday will be their last working day and has mentioned exploring strategic possibilities for the future.
- Previously, Convoy had a valuation of $3.8 billion.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37946017)

- Convoy, a trucking startup, has ceased operations due to financial hardship, leaving its employees without severance or healthcare benefits, sparking discourse about legislative protection for startup employees.
- Amid Convoy's closure, Uber Freight unveiled significant changes after acquiring Transplace, although acquiring Convoy is highly unlikely due to a lack of customer overlap.
- The ensuing conversation touches on crucial issues like healthcare insurance, the role of unions in the tech industry, and the importance of financial preparedness in startup employment.

## [Autotab – An AI-powered Chrome extension to create Selenium scripts](https://www.autotab.com/)

- Autotab is a Chrome extension that creates Selenium code based on your web browsing actions, facilitating easy creation of browser automations.
- It provides code output for users to manually adjust and incorporate into other projects.
- It also provides a starter GitHub repository for quick automation setup, and the developers are open to user feedback.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37943931)

- Autotab is an AI-powered Chrome extension that creates Selenium code for automating web browser actions, aiming to make AI-generated software accessible to non-tech users.
- The tool has plans for self-healing automations and includes a comparison with other tools like UI.Vision and Playwright; the system records demos using screen recording software.
- The discussion also includes potential enhancements, such as supporting authentication plugins, adding support for multiple languages like R, and compatibility with other browsers such as Firefox.

## [Apple's use of Swift and SwiftUI in iOS 17](https://blog.timac.org/2023/1019-state-of-swift-and-swiftui-ios17/)

- The report explores the analysis of iOS 17, focusing on its built-in apps, the number of binaries, and the programming languages leveraged for their development.
- There's an observed increase in the usage of SwiftUI and Swift in iOS 17, highlighted along with a comparison between UIKit and SwiftUI usage.
- The report notes that while Swift is present in macOS, it remains absent in the Secure Enclave of iOS, revealing trends in programming language adoption across Apple's platforms.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37947772)

- The article discusses the rising usage of Swift and SwiftUI in iOS 17, focusing on the decline of the C programming language and the increasing adoption of Swift in iOS binaries.
- It explores both the advantages and drawbacks of rewriting code in Swift, highlighting the importance of evaluating the return on investment while transitioning to a new language.
- It draws attention to issues with SwiftUI's performance on older devices, and includes user experiences regarding difficulties with widgets and inaccurate data displays on Apple's iOS platform.

## [Please Pay for a Year of Nothing](https://joe-steel.com/2023-10-19-Please-Pay-For-a-Year-of-Nothing.html)

- The author has decided to cancel their Disney+ subscription due to the platform's price hike and the entertainment industry's production halt, leading to limited new content.
- The author expresses dissatisfaction with both Disney+'s current offerings and the focus on quantity over quality of streaming giants like Prime Video and Netflix.
- The author believes the lack of new content arising from production delays can challenge streaming services' subscriber retention and does not foresee a near-future reactivation of their Disney+ subscription.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37949899)

- The main discussion involves user experience, technical quality, and content of streaming services, specifically focusing on Netflix and Disney+.
- Several issues are raised, such as user interface, content availability, and technical problems, leading to general dissatisfaction with pricing, content discovery, and the value proposition of such services.
- Additional topics include alternative methods for accessing content like piracy, the financial support for artists, ethical implications of streaming services, and the need for more novel and engaging content. This leads to the suggestion that people should engage more actively rather than simply consume media.

## [Just paying Figma because nothing else works](https://fasterthanli.me/articles/just-paying-figma-15-dollars)

- The author shares their experience with two free and open source design tools: Figma and Penpot.
- Figma wins over the author due to its reliability, advanced features, and improved functionality.
- Despite appreciating both tools, the author has a preference for Figma and plans to continue using it going forward.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37946203)

- This thread discusses the obstacles and restrictions encountered in open-source software projects, including issues with refinement and user-friendliness in many Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) initiatives.
- It emphasizes the complexities reconciling personal values with project needs, the fundamental role of effective communication, extensive documentation, and rigorous testing, as well as the necessity for adequate funding and resources.
- It acknowledges the struggle of competing with proprietary software and cites instances of successful FOSS projects and potential software alternatives.

## [Peter Thiel was an FBI informant](https://www.businessinsider.com/peter-thiel-fbi-informant-charles-johnson-johnathan-buma-chs-genius-2023-10)

- Peter Thiel, a technology billionaire, has been revealed to be an FBI informant, working as a "confidential human source", with a particular focus on foreign attempts to infiltrate Silicon Valley.
- Thiel's act of becoming an FBI informant is seen as a part of his move away from the Trump and MAGA movement.
- His role accentuates his influential status among right-wing figures who have worked with the bureau, and it also underlines his vested interest in government agencies through his business stakes like the data company Palantir.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37941881)

- The discussions primarily focus on Peter Thiel, entrepreneur and FBI informant, scrutinizing his various controversial actions and beliefs.
- Topics include Thiel's criticisms of Google, alleged ties with the Chinese government, involvement with law enforcement agencies, and his role in the downfall of Gawker.
- This brings into focus power dynamics among wealthy individuals, intelligence agencies, and the tech industry, highlighting questions about Thiel's adherence to libertarian principles and the potential impacts of his relationships and affiliations.

## [Toyota adopts the North American charging standard](https://pressroom.toyota.com/toyota-adopts-the-north-american-charging-standard-to-expand-customer-charging-options/)

- Toyota Motor North America is set to adopt the North American Charging Standard (NACS) for its battery electric vehicles (BEVs) from 2025, based on an agreement with Tesla.
- This decision allows Toyota and Lexus customers to access over 12,000 Tesla Superchargers across North America and is aimed at giving customers more convenient charging options and a wider travel range.
- Certain Toyota and Lexus BEVs will feature NACS ports, and adapters for NACS charging will be provided to customers with vehicles equipped with the Combined Charging System (CCS).

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37950014)

- Toyota's adoption of a North American EV charging standard aids Tesla by raising the ubiquity and prominence of the Supercharger network, thereby strengthening Tesla's hold on the EV market.
- The discourse suggests potential for Tesla becoming a charging monopoly, while also discussing the relative simplicity of establishing charging over gas stations, aside from the compatibility of Tesla's Supercharger network with other stations.
- Topics like the cost and durability of Tesla batteries, battery reuse and remanufacturing, government subsidies and the technical facets of EV charging structures are covered. Differences in charging standards between Europe and the US and regional charger network efficiency are also highlighted.

## [Researchers identify largest ever solar storm in 14k-year-old tree rings](https://phys.org/news/2023-10-largest-solar-storm-ancient-year-old.html)

- Researchers have detected the largest known solar storm in ancient tree rings, dated back to 14,300 years ago.
- The study suggests that similar events in the present day could result in dire consequences, such as blackouts, and damage to telecommunications and satellite systems.
- The team stresses on understanding and gearing up for such solar storms to safeguard our global communication and energy infrastructure, revealing there's more to discover about the sun's behavior and related risks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37944269)

- Tree rings have revealed the largest recorded solar storm, emphasizing the necessity to prepare for future solar storms and shield the electrical grid. The destructive effect of a solar storm on current technology could be devastating.
- There are debates about the effects of solar flares on Earth, with worries about long-term blackouts due to a lack of replacement transformers. Protective measures are not hindered by funding or political will but are focused on the impacts on nuclear plants, water pumps, and goods distribution.
- The potential approaches include grounding breakers during solar storms, forming a Strategic Transformer Reserve, and masking transformers as robots. The logistical and financial costs of maintaining a transformer reserve are weighed against potential outcomes.

## [Instagram apologizes for inserting 'terrorist' into Palestinian bio translations](https://www.404media.co/instagram-palestinian-arabic-bio-translation/)

- Instagram has apologized for an auto-translation error that incorrectly translated bios with the word 'Palestinian' and an Arabic phrase, generating offensive content.
- The issue was discovered and shared on TikTok, after which Instagram began inserting the term 'terrorist' into the concerned translations.
- This incident highlights potential issues with automated translation systems, including the probability of biased or erroneous translations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37946080)

- Instagram has acknowledged and apologized for its translation tool mistakenly incorporating the term "terrorist" into Palestinian bio translations, raising user concerns of potential detrimental effects on their livelihoods and reputations.
- The incident underscores the urgent need for enhanced safeguards and clarity in using machine-assisted translations, also sparking debates about language precision, bias in AI language models, and the trustworthiness of such translations.
- In the broader discourse, concerns were raised about government influence in tech organizations, privacy issues, and the contentious Israeli-Palestinian conflict, with notable mentions including journalist Abby Martin.

## [FCC moves ahead with Title II net neutrality rules in 3-2 party-line vote](https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2023/10/fcc-moves-ahead-with-title-ii-net-neutrality-rules-in-3-2-party-line-vote/)

- The FCC has voted 3-2, moving forward with a proposal to revive net neutrality rules, regulating Internet Service Providers (ISPs) as common carriers.
- This plan involves reclassification of broadband as a telecommunications service, enabling the FCC to control ISPs under Title II of the Communications Act, similar to measures taken in 2015 but later repealed.
- The proposal is now open for a public comment period before finalizing, though challenges from the broadband industry in court are anticipated.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37944680)

- The discussion primarily revolves around the effects of various net neutrality laws, with a focal point on California's law and its implications.
- Participants are debating the ability of Internet Service Providers (ISPs) to prioritize internet traffic, the ongoing legal struggles about net neutrality laws, and the intricate issues of jurisdiction and regulation.
- The conversation also explores potential impacts on service plans and ISP monopolies, underlining the necessity for regulations to safeguard consumers along with the contrasting viewpoints on net neutrality, government intervention, and free market.

## [Mojo is now available on Mac](https://www.modular.com/blog/mojo-is-now-available-on-mac)

- Mojo, originally released for Linux, is now available for Mac users, enabling them to download, install the Mojo SDK, and start developing programs.
- The announcement features step-by-step installation instructions and highlights the official Visual Studio Code extension for Mojo, facilitating its use.
- The article emphasizes Mojo's speed and performance on Mac and recommends various resources, including documentation and examples, and introduces the Mojo Discord community for further exploration.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37942574)

- The discussions primarily focus on the programming language Mojo, its development, and how it stands compared to other languages.
- There are ongoing debates about Mojo's overall performance, integration with Python ecosystem, its marketing strategies, and requirement for certain features.
- Opinions are varied, with some showing interest in trying Mojo and others showing skepticism about its claims and compatibility.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="ArXiv receives $10M for upgrades" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=ArXiv%20receives%20%2410M%20for%20upgrades&subheading=Friday%2C%20October%2020%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
