---
slug: '/2023/10/22'
---

# 2023-10-22

## [What every developer should know about GPU computing](https://codeconfessions.substack.com/p/gpu-computing)

- This article details the distinctions between CPU (Central Processing Unit) and GPU (Graphics Processing Unit), their architectures, design objectives, and their significance in applications like deep learning.
- The discussion also covers Little's law—an important principle in queuing theory—and the increasing performance discrepancy between GPUs and CPUs.
- The complex architecture of GPUs and the need for code optimization are stressed, along with the essentials of effective resource allocation for optimal performance. Key terminologies such as CUDA kernels, thread blocks, and data copying are clarified.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37967126)

- The article discusses the complexity of GPU computing, stressing the importance of understanding CPUs, memory usage, and efficient code optimization in this field.
- Concepts such as differences between quadcopters and drones, Apple Silicon vs Nvidia GPU architectures, and the use of floats in machine learning are also explored.
- It emphasizes the benefits of continuous learning in the software industry, the growing impact of Chinese companies in the GPU market, and the importance of considering alternative hardware options for machine learning and GPU computing.

## [FPGA N64](http://www.ultrafp64.com/)

- The ULTRA FP64 FPGA N64 home console, which has been under development for five years, is nearing completion. Key components like CPU, TLB, FPU, cache and bus designs, among others, have been designed and tested successfully.
- The console features enhancements like increased memory access via the bus design, and improved data flow enabled by a RAM controller with a 2.2 gbit throughput. The video core boasts a scaling unit and HDMI output, with audio also delivered through the HDMI port.
- The project has enjoyed support from N64Brew and various decompiler teams, highlighting an active and engaged community behind the console's development. Some minor issues, particularly with the RDP core, are still being addressed.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37967936)

- The primary focus of the conversation is on projects optimizing Super Mario 64 to run romhacks on the original Nintendo 64 (N64) hardware.
- Discussions also cover other retro gaming systems, including the MiSTer system, upcoming projects like Analogue N64 FPGA clone, MARSFPGA console, and FPGA emulation.
- Users discuss game development language (C) for Nintendo consoles, share suggestions for FPGA development boards, and touch on educational resources such as nand2tetris and Ben Eater's projects.

## [Startup CTO's Handbook](https://github.com/ZachGoldberg/Startup-CTO-Handbook)

- "The Startup CTO's Handbook" is an open-source book tackling leadership, management, and software engineering topics for leaders in tech startups.
- The book is being converted into markdown format and is available for view and edits on GitHub, increasing accessibility and collaboration potential.
- The author invites contributions and provides rules for content licensing and usage, promoting an open and inclusive creation process.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37971795)

- The discourse primarily debates the pros and cons of recording meetings in a startup environment, with supporters citing the potential for improved productivity and transparency, while opponents express concerns about consent and appropriateness.
- The role and challenges of a Chief Technology Officer (CTO) and the common skepticism towards it, as well as the definition and interpretation of DevOps, a practice that combines software development and IT operations, are other significant points of discussion.
- Other relevant topics include tech debt, a term that represents the implied cost of additional rework caused by choosing the easy solution now instead of using a better approach that would take longer, startup management advice, and the importance of comprehensive documentation.

## [Adtech surveillance and government surveillance are often the same](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2023/10/adtech-surveillance-and-government-surveillance-are-often-same-surveillance)

- The line between corporate and governmental surveillance is fading with governments purchasing personal data from data brokers; this data is originally sourced from the targeted advertising industry.
- This practice allows government bodies to access information on billions of devices without requiring a warrant; smartphone app developers often sell user data, even to the government, which makes people more susceptible to surveillance and targeting.
- Measures are underway to close the data broker loophole and enact comprehensive consumer data privacy laws that will ensure the privacy of individuals is protected.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37969248)

- The article discusses the similarities between adtech and government surveillance, raising concerns about personal data exploitation and calling for regulatory measures against location data sales by cellular carriers.
- Emphasizing the importance of encryption, accountability, user education about risk, and improved privacy measures, the article introduces "AdInt," an example of surveillance practices, to criticize tech giants Meta and Google for their part in adtech and profiting from user data sales.
- It also sheds light on potential adverse effects of surveillance, misuse of advanced technology, the necessity for personal data regulation, explicit user consent, and collaboration between tech firms and data brokers.

## [Reddit mods dumped tokens hours before blockchain program termination](https://cointelegraph.com/news/reddit-mods-dumped-tokens-hours-before-blockchain-program-termination)

- Reddit has discontinued its blockchain-based community points program due to scalability issues.
- There are allegations that about three Reddit moderators sold their tokens just before the announcement, possibly using insider info.
- Despite a downturn in crypto markets, Tether, the organization behind the USDT stablecoin, has experienced a growth in its assets and lending in 2023. It plans to start sharing reserve data in real-time from 2024.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37969387)

- The primary focus of the text is a conversation on Reddit about moderators allegedly engaging in insider trading by selling tokens, sparking debates on the regulation of securities within the cryptocurrency market.
- The text also broaches other issues related to cryptocurrency, such as scams, thefts, and questions about its legitimacy as a currency.
- It includes critiques of various currency systems, discussions on corruption, and mentions of Reddit's perceived decline as a platform while highlighting the subject of illicit trading activities by congress members.

## [The Pixel 8 Pro's Tensor G3 off-loads all generative AI tasks to the cloud](https://www.notebookcheck.net/MrWhosetheboss-video-reveals-Google-s-Pixel-8-Pro-Tensor-G3-off-loads-all-generative-AI-tasks-to-the-cloud.760215.0.html)

- YouTuber @Mrwhosetheboss criticizes the Google Pixel 8 Pro's Tensor G3 processor, arguing that contrary to Google's marketing, the device requires a constant internet connection for certain AI functions, implying that it off-loads AI tasks to the cloud.
- The YouTuber points out that the Tensor G3 chip's performance is slower than expected and comparable to that of mid-range processors, questioning Google's flagship claims.
- Google is additionally criticized for preventing reviewers from using benchmark apps during the review embargo period, which could have allowed for objective performance assessment.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37966569)

- The key discussion is about the readiness and capabilities of generative AI on mobile devices, especially concentrating on Google's Pixel 8 Pro and its Tensor G3 chip.
- There are doubts regarding the chip's efficiency, Google's claims about its performance, and concerns about offloading AI tasks to the cloud impacting user privacy.
- It also mentions Qualcomm's discontinued support for older chipsets and the limitations of on-device AI processing, while criticizing Google for not fulfilling promises and demanding more transparency and long-term support.

## [Canada has fewer entrepreneurs today than it did 20 years ago](https://www.cbc.ca/news/business/canada-entrepreneurs-shortage-solutions-1.7002171)

- The Business Development Bank of Canada (BDC) report shows a noticeable drop in entrepreneurship over the last 20 years, with 100,000 fewer entrepreneurs despite a growing population.
- The BDC suggests the necessity of developing "soft skills" like marketing, finance, and leadership to tackle the challenges in initiating and operating a business.
- Factors contributing to the decline include a decreasing demographic of potential founders, low unemployment with high wages, and several discouraging factors in the business milieu. Proposals for reversing the downwards trend include scholarships for entrepreneurship and engagement of older, experienced entrepreneurs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37970484)

- The discourse centers on the decrease in entrepreneurship in Canada, due to factors like limited understanding and investment opportunities, an oppressive business environment, and risk aversion tendencies.
- High living expenses, specifically housing costs, are seen as an obstruction for young aspirants; government inefficiencies are discussed, along with their impact on productivity.
- Themes of increasing public sector growth, Canada's image as an ideal living location, and issues of immigration and taxation are raised, pointing towards a need for government intervention in housing and construction matters.

## [Human microbiome myths and misconceptions](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41564-023-01426-7)

- The article targets common myths and misconceptions about human microbiome research, including the belief that it's a new field and the incorrect figures about bacterial cells in human feces.
- It discusses limitations in microbiome research, challenging popular notions about the microbiome's role in disease, and advocates for evidence-based claims.
- The end goal is to provide readers with a more accurate perspective on the human microbiome.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37967748)

- The article delves into the misconceptions concerning the human microbiome, stressing the multifaceted nature of its role in maintaining health.
- It highlights the importance of further research to explore the full potential impact of the microbiome and addresses criticisms of current microbiome research.
- The beneficial effects of fermented foods on gastrointestinal health, such as reducing inflammation, are emphasized, supported by personal experiences regarding dietary changes.

## [Refactoring has a price, not refactoring has a cost](https://www.germanvelasco.com/blog/refactoring-is-a-habit)

- The article emphasizes the essential role of refactoring in development, indicating that not refactoring correlates with increased maintenance costs.
- It argues that a lack of continuous refactoring causes a deteriorated and difficult-to-maintain codebase, making feature additions risky due to potential breaks.
- The article concludes with the notion that whether opting for regular refactoring or allowing cruft accumulation, both attract a cost - however, the cost of a complete rewrite is higher.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37966485)

- The article emphasizes the consequences of neglecting to update outdated tech, stressing the importance of dealing with tech debt and the role of senior leadership in understanding the need for prioritizing such updates.
- The involvement of cybersecurity teams is recommended to aid in addressing vulnerabilities, suggesting the need for a balance between delivering new business features and focusing on tech tasks.
- Discussions revolve around the value of design and refactoring in software development, including perspectives on employing external tools like an IDE, the implications of rewriting a system, and the potential need for a formal theory of program organization.

## [OpenRefine](https://openrefine.org/)

- OpenRefine is a free, open-source tool for cleaning and transforming unorganized data, with features like faceting, clustering, reconciliation, and unlimited undo/redo.
- The tool prioritizes privacy by cleaning data locally and allows data extension with web services and other external sources.
- Users can additionally contribute to Wikidata and access extra resources and documents, enhancing its utility and collaborative nature.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37970800)

- OpenRefine is a tool praised for its data cleaning and consolidation capabilities, particularly handling disparate and loosely structured data sources while tracking the process.
- Users discuss alternatives tools like Exploratory.io and the possibility of redeveloping OpenRefine with different technologies.
- The evolution of OpenRefine is noted, from its origins as Freebase Gridworks, to Google Refine, and finally to its present state as OpenRefine.

## [The decline of computers as a general-purpose technology (2021)](https://cacm.acm.org/magazines/2021/3/250710-the-decline-of-computers-as-a-general-purpose-technology/fulltext)

- The article highlights the slowing progress in general purpose CPUs, leading to a shift towards specialized processors like GPUs for their performance and power efficiency benefits.
- However, this shift has drawbacks such as higher costs, programming complexity, and possible hindrances to the overall development in computing and universal processor production economics.
- Furthermore, the article examines the challenges and implications of this trend, including increased costs, fragmentation, potential effect on job markets, and competition, emphasizing the need for a new computation model.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37970572)

- The article discusses the decrease in the use of computers as a universal technology, citing the failure of software to create effective tools for those without programming skills.
- There's a focus on the potential shifts towards automation, enhanced education around scripting and data analysis, and the emerging trend towards specialized processors over universal Central Processing Units (CPUs).
- Also discussed is the complex nature of software, possible fragmentation of computing platforms, and challenges of employment in an increasingly automated industry.

## [Keju, China’s difficult civil service test](https://aeon.co/essays/why-chinese-minds-still-bear-the-long-shadow-of-keju)

- The article focuses on the historical impact of the Keju, China's civil service exam, suggesting that it promoted authority deference and collectivism; its abolition in 1905 led to regional rebellions and the collapse of the Qing dynasty.
- The author compares the Keju system to civil service exams in the West and suggests that China's autocracy under President Xi Jinping is stronger than Russia's under Vladimir Putin.
- It is argued that the Keju system monopolized the time and energy of candidates, promoted pro-autocracy values, and suppressed creativity. The article surmises that the success of Chinese autocracy could be partially due to the usage of Confucian texts in the Keju system.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37967751)

- The article discusses the influence of China's civil service test, the Keju, on social mobility and family investments, and draws comparisons with similar exam systems in ancient and modern South Korea.
- It highlights the prestige and history of Indian exams, their likeness to the British education system, and discusses the difficulties of gaining admission into prestigious institutions like Harvard.
- The piece concludes with a debate on the importance of college and extracurricular activities in the tech industry, including issues of bias, networking, and unconventional paths to success.

## [It takes 12 people to use the 18k Sphere camera](https://petapixel.com/2023/10/20/darren-aronofsky-says-it-takes-12-people-to-use-the-18k-sphere-camera/)

- Renowned filmmaker Darren Aronofsky utilized an 18K cinema camera, called 'Big Sky', for his new film, 'Postcard From Earth'. The camera, which requires approximately 12 operators, offers a resolution 40 times greater than standard 4K cameras.
- The film plays at 60 frames per second, double the speed of typical motion pictures, with a data rate of approximately 32GB per second and total size half a petabyte.
- 'Postcard From Earth' will be exclusively screened at the Sphere venue in Las Vegas for two years. Aronofsky reported his astonishment at the audience's reaction to the film on the venue's formidable screen.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37966367)

- The article highlights the advanced features of the 18k Sphere camera, such as its high resolution, frame rate, bandwidth, and data size.
- It explores how this camera could revolutionize film-making, virtual reality (VR), and home viewing experiences.
- The discussions also extend to the complexities and compromises associated with converting between different video frame rates.

## [Cratering motor fuel sales in Norway show the death spiral that can end oil](https://electrek.co/2023/10/20/cratering-motor-fuel-sales-in-norway-show-the-death-spiral-that-can-end-oil/)

- Norway's significant drop in motor fuel sales is attributed to the high sales of electric vehicles (EVs), with over 90% of new vehicle purchases being electric.
- The decrease in oil consumption illustrates a potential downfall for the oil industry as EV sales increase globally and could provide environmental benefits by dissuading oil companies from exploring new extraction techniques.
- Proper oil pricing, as implemented in Norway, could encourage consumers towards more financially savvy and eco-friendly decisions, possibly leading the oil industry toward obsoleteness if the market continues to evolve organically.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37966767)

- The key points discussed include the increase of electric vehicles (EVs) usage in Norway, leading to a decrease in motor fuel sales and gas station closures, potentially impacting the oil industry.
- There were debates over affordable EVs, the availability and feasibility of EV charging stations, particularly in Manhattan and Brooklyn, achieving sustainable urban environments, and benefits of increasing housing density.
- Topics such as the environmental effects of EVs, their recycling potential, comparison to combustion engines, and the role of subsidies and tax incentives in popularizing EVs in Norway are also discussed.

## [Google owes executive $1M after losing gender bias lawsuit](https://www.theverge.com/2023/10/21/23926501/google-cloud-lawsuit-ulku-rowe-verdict)

- In a lawsuit filed by Ulku Rowe, a female executive, Google has been found guilty of sexual discrimination, having favored less-experienced male colleagues with higher pay and denied her promotions for voicing complaints.
- The jury awarded Rowe $1.1 million in damages, heralding the verdict as a validation of mistreatment allegations against Google, signaling that discrimination and retaliation in the workplace will not be tolerated.
- This lawsuit comes after a mass protest in 2018 when over 20,000 Google employees walked out demanding changes in the wake of sexual assault allegations against an executive.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37970325)

- Google was mandated to pay $1 million to a former female executive who alleged gender bias, stating she was overlooked for promotions.
- This lawsuit has provoked discourse about gender prejudice in work settings, the potential for executives to challenge promotional decisions, and the difficulties of substantiating damages in such instances.
- The debate has also interrogated the definitions of sexism and racism, the possibility of men bringing similar lawsuits, voiced concerns about individuals speaking up for equality being labeled as overly sensitive, and stressed the necessity for objective proof in inequality discussions.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="What every developer should know about GPU computing" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=What%20every%20developer%20should%20know%20about%20GPU%20computing&subheading=Sunday%2C%20October%2022%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
