---
slug: '/2023/10/23'
---

# 2023-10-23

## [Who profits most from America's baffling health-care system?](https://www.economist.com/business/2023/10/08/who-profits-most-from-americas-baffling-health-care-system)

- The American healthcare system grapples with difficulties like staffing shortages and high costs.
- The complexity of the system not only profits a few middlemen immensely, but also contributes significantly to these challenges, as illustrated by events like Kaiser Permanente employees' strike and Medicare's medicine price negotiations.
- Despite high expenditure on healthcare in the US, health outcomes reportedly fall behind compared to other affluent nations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37976309)

- The discussion thread encompasses various aspects of the American healthcare system, with topics touching on its complexity, inefficiency, and high costs.
- Among the debates are comparisons between drug and tobacco addiction, the enforcement of FDA rules, the process of passing national laws, and comparisons between U.S. and European healthcare systems.
- Participants acknowledged that the healthcare system has significant flaws needing address, with differing opinions on solutions, including healthcare reforms, impact of regulations, lack of price transparency, and the roles of insurance companies, hospitals, and pharmaceutical companies.

## [Nanofiche: Small Storage, for Forever](https://www.archmission.org/nanofiche)

- The Arch Mission Foundation has adopted Nanofiche, a nickel-based film designed by Stamper Technology, for their archiving needs due to its durability and efficiency in extreme environments like space.
- Nanofiche can sustain large volumes of analog data without degradation, offering more durability and space-efficiency than its predecessor, microfiche, which is environmentally sensitive and necessitates expensive upkeep.
- Apart from its robustness and compact size, Nanofiche is distinguished by its high resolution, patented security features, and a lifespan expected to span billions of years if undisturbed in space.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37978483)

- The discussion centers around various methods for long-term data storage and preservation, including but not limited to analog text, digital encoding, glass media optical disks, books, Nanofiche technology, and Microsoft's Silica technology.
- There are concerns about the practicality, cost, and accessibility of these storage methods, along with skeptics questioning their viability.
- Novel storage technology that includes nanoscale patterns on metal, microscopically engraved discs and off-earth storage on the moon are discussed, with issues about their proprietary nature, high costs, readability, durability, and feasibility being raised.

## [Beginners guide to building a hardware hacking lab](https://voidstarsec.com/hw-hacking-lab/vss-lab-guide)

- The mentioned guide offers recommendations for creating an embedded systems lab, including contents like workbenches, ESD protection, soldering equipment, hot air stations, and more.
- The guide, accessible through a GitHub repository, is flexible for various budgets and also encourages user contributions for further improvement.
- In addition to basic lab setup, it also details about tools for soldering, oscilloscopes, logic analyzers, along with specialized utilities for fault injection and RF security assessment.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37977502)

- The post emphasizes the importance of setting up a hardware hacking lab, comprising high-quality tools like soldering irons, microscopes, and multimeters.
- The post covers practices in measuring voltage, soldering techniques, prevention of static electricity damage, and discusses the pros and cons of lead-free solder.
- It also includes the author's suggestions on essential tools and resources for beginners in hardware hacking.

## [How to Make a CPU – A Simple Picture Based Explanation](https://blog.robertelder.org/how-to-make-a-cpu/)

- The article offers a simplified guide to creating a Central Processing Unit (CPU) using basic elements like rocks and sand; it presents steps including purifying silicon dioxide, creating a silicon monocrystal, and strategically doping silicon wafers.
- The author acknowledges the high complexity and proprietary nature of modern CPU production, offering further research resources, and sheds light on the risks associated with chemical usage in this process.
- The piece concludes by questioning the feasibility of amateur chip production and introduces the concept of custom chip production as a potential hobby business.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37976894)

- The article highlights a detailed, step-by-step process of constructing a CPU, augmented with illustrative pictures.
- The comment section expands on this with discussions on associated topics like obtaining necessary resources for building a CPU.
- Further, a comparative dialogue is sparked off on the distinctions between contemporary CPUs and those from two decades ago.

## [Great Male Renunciation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Male_Renunciation)

- The Great Male Renunciation was a historical shift in Western men's fashion during the late 18th century from vibrant colors and ornate designs to simplicity and usefulness.
- This change, first identified by John Flügel in 1930, was notably influenced by the Enlightenment ideals, the French Revolution, and societal perception of men as rational and women as emotional.
- The movement set dark-colored clothing, pantaloons, and suits as the standard for male dressing, abandoning high heels and tight breeches, persisting until the counterculture movement in the 1960s.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37978118)

- The article reviews the historic transition in men's fashion from vibrant, complex clothing to plainer garments in the 19th century, and how it resonates with contemporary style trends.
- It emphasizes cultural disparities in clothing selections, the importance of suits in diverse cities, and the association between fashion, authority, and societal standing.
- Participants share their perspectives on style patterns and the potential for fostering a culture that is not exclusively affluent-oriented.

## [Global Encryption Day: Encryption's Critical Role in Safeguarding Human Rights](https://blog.torproject.org/global-encryption-day-2023/)

- Today is Global Encryption Day, an event coordinated by the Global Encryption Coalition, which counts the Tor Project among its members. They are reflecting on their work to shield encryption and resist government attempts to weaken it.
- The Tor Project recently co-hosted a workshop named 'Encryption’s Critical Role in Safeguarding Human Rights' at the Internet Governance Forum, underscoring the significance of international teamwork and adherence to human rights principles.
- The panelists advocated for education, training, and upskilling of policymakers in encryption and content moderation, cementing Tor Project's call to action for safeguarding privacy-preserving technologies. They're inviting people to support their mission either by making contributions or signing up as members.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37977530)

- The central premise of the article is the importance of encryption in safeguarding human rights, especially within communication platforms like email, noting the strengths and weaknesses of such security measures.
- The piece suggests alternatives to traditional communication platforms, such as Signal, while also discussing the limitations of end-to-end encryption in business and legal settings, coupled with an absence of domain-specific trust standards.
- The article highlights debates on encryption's role in privacy and security, touching on differing viewpoints regarding its necessity and possible misuse, as well as the roles of government and large tech companies in these discussions.

## [Children of married parents do better, but America is moving the other way](https://www.npr.org/2023/10/22/1207322878/single-parent-married-good-for-children-inequality)

- In her book, The Two-Parent Privilege, economist Melissa Kearney presents data supporting the correlation between children's success and being raised by married parents, as compared to single mothers.
- Kearney's endorsing of marriage has generated varied reactions, with conservatives finding confirmation of their beliefs, while progressives consider it a stigmatization of single mothers.
- Additionally, Kearney points out the economic hardships of single mothers and the absence of assistance from fathers or other adults, particularly impacting boys by contributing to educational struggles and potential interactions with the criminal justice system.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37975090)

- The article explores multiple components of marriage, including its implications on children, societal norms, cultural variations, divorce aftermath, and dropping marriage rates.
- Topics like gender roles, communal childcare, wealth disparity, single mothers' economic hurdles, and the significance of financial stability in marital decisions are discussed.
- It underscores the need for additional research and approaches to tackle these issues and foster a sustainable society.

## [Europe's largest copper producer is the victim of metal swindle worth $198M](https://fortune.com/2023/09/20/europe-largest-copper-producer-aurubis-victim-metal-heist-worth-198-million-insiders-involved/)

- Aurubis AG, Europe's largest copper producer, has reported a substantial metal theft amounting to approximately $198 million, raising suspicions of insider involvement.
- The theft, detected through an inventory check, is believed to have been orchestrated via inflated scrap metal invoices and manipulated samples. The company has asserted it did not participate in any illicit activities.
- The losses have been partially mitigated through insurance payouts and seizing assets of the criminals. Current investigations underway by Germany's State Office of Criminal Investigation underscore the vulnerability and security concerns in the metal trading industry.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37975944)

- Europe's leading copper producer faced a substantial inventory shortage, instigating a metal scam valued at $198 million, indicating the potential for manipulation in the metals warehousing sector.
- This incident emphasizes the deficiency of accountability in present systems, leading to discussions about misconduct and fraud in large organizations like JPMorgan.
- The dialogue also includes topics about theft and embezzlement in workplaces and pay inequality.

## [Bifrost: A peer-to-peer communications engine with pluggable transports](https://github.com/aperturerobotics/bifrost)

- Bifrost is a multifaceted peer-to-peer communications engine, featuring multiplexing, encryption, and compatibility with other libraries, accommodating numerous transports, protocols, and routing techniques.
- Bifrost comes with tools for testing and simulation. Users can interface with it through its API, command-line interface, and daemon, facilitating operations like managing peers, forwarding streams, and subscribing to pubsub channels.
- Bifrost can be set up to establish connections between peers and manage network traffic, emphasizing its utility in handling a broad array of networking tasks.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37974879)

- Bifrost is a peer-to-peer networking engine aimed at simplifying internet application development by removing the need to integrate specific communication protocols. Applications range from decentralized chat systems to file-sharing software.
- The online discussion reveals a lack of clarity about Bifrost's purpose, target audience, dynamic component configuration, and integration with the libp2p library - a group of protocols for peer-to-peer applications.
- The commenters are divided; some find Bifrost confusing and lacking proper documentation, while others view it as a potential alternative to existing technologies. Zero-copy networking - an efficient way of transferring data - and the issue of data queuing are points of contention.

## [The Lessons of Lucasfilm's Habitat (1990)](https://web.stanford.edu/class/history34q/readings/Virtual_Worlds/LucasfilmHabitat.html)

- The paper reviews the creation of Lucasfilm's Habitat, a pioneering large-scale multi-user virtual environment, focusing on user interactions and behaviors more than its technological aspects.
- It delves into the technical components of Habitat (such as its graphics, avatars, regions, objects, and in-game economy), the challenges faced in its development, and the importance of observing and supporting player actions.
- The author stresses caution regarding user access to infrastructure level, promotes an object-oriented world model along with a decentralized, evolutionary approach, and underscores the need for discussions and standards in the development of cyberspace.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37977632)

- The Hacker News discussion focuses on the video game Habitat and the theme of game preservation, contemplating on the sustainability and conservation of such projects.
- Debates extend to the narrative quality and characterization in the TV show "Halt and Catch Fire," reflecting the intersection of tech culture and entertainment.
- The dialogue delves into the history and evolution of virtual worlds, IRC (Internet Relay Chat) integration into various platforms, and the ideal attributes of multiplayer games.

## [Uber migrates microservices to multi-cloud platform running Kubernetes and Mesos](https://www.uber.com/en-GB/blog/up-portable-microservices-ready-for-the-cloud/)

- Uber has improved deployments, capacity management, compliance, and daily operations by streamlining and consolidating its microservices, transitioning from a single, large application to smaller, interconnected ones.
- Using its in-house developed platform called 'Up', Uber has automated the deployment of stateless services and made them portable across any availability zone and public cloud providers.
- The company has effectively migrated over 4,000 services to the cloud using 'Up', resulting in significant cost savings and efficiency. Future plans include further cloud migration, automating code delivery, enhancing deployment safety, and organizing all stateless services under a single platform.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37975276)

- Uber has transitioned its microservices to a multi-cloud platform utilizing Kubernetes and Mesos, bringing in enhanced portability.
- The discussion includes the challenges and advantages of using microservices, alongside complexities of operating a global venture like Uber. Topics such as logging, tracing, and stubbing API responses are covered.
- The post also emphasizes the criticality of effective communication and collaboration and speculates about the future of Uber's technology stack and the number of microservices used.

## [Rivian R1T is the first EV to win the longest off-road competition in the US](https://techcrunch.com/2023/10/22/rivian-r1t-is-the-first-ev-to-win-the-longest-off-road-competition-in-the-us/)

- The Rivian R1T, an electric vehicle (EV), became the first EV to clinch victory at the Rebelle Rally, America's longest off-road race.
- The rally, now in its eighth year, serves dual roles: it's a competition for all-women teams, and a test-bed for Rivian, where they receive invaluable participant feedback to fine-tune their vehicle technology and features.
- The concerted effort to provide EV charging infrastructure in remote areas for the rally was also remarkable, involving partnerships with companies to supply green hydrogen chargers throughout the course.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37980323)

- The Rivian R1T, an electric vehicle, triumphed in off-road competitions in the US, sparking debates about the merits and limitations of electric SUVs and trucks for off-roading.
- There are concerns about high repair costs of EVs like the Rivian R1T; these discussions touch on potential innovations and the appearance of a women-only electric vehicle competition.
- Opinions are split about the need for new car excitement and the lack of variety in mainstream vehicles, with a particular focus on the customization options available for Tesla vehicles.

## [OpenTelemetry at Scale: Using Kafka to handle bursty traffic](https://signoz.io/blog/maximizing-scalability-apache-kafka-and-opentelemetry/)

- SigNoz, an open-source platform for monitoring and tracking application performance, has secured $6.5 million in funding.
- The company underlines the advantage of using multiple OpenTelemetry collectors for enhancing scalability, minimizing network traffic, and performing data filtering.
- SigNoz also recommends using Apache Kafka, a streaming platform that handles data in real-time, as a dependable intermediary for data ingestion and buffering, providing YAML configurations for implementing these strategies.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37978060)

- The post explores how companies such as Datadog and New Relic utilize Kafka to manage voluminous ingest traffic.
- It elaborates on the issue of the absence of a rate limiter in OpenTelemetry components, leading to potential backend storage overload. Grafana's use of memcached for caching is suggested as a solution to alleviate this impact.
- Various methodologies and alternatives for achieving exactly-once semantical processing and managing Kafka are examined, taking into account factors like scalability, performance, cost, data retention, and the ability to handle traffic surges.

## [How to Make Your Own Spooky Magic Eye Pictures (Autostereograms)](https://blog.demofox.org/2023/10/22/how-to-make-your-own-spooky-magic-eye-pictures-autostereograms/)

- The blog post offers a comprehensive guide on creating autostereogram images using C++ code, including detailed instructions and advice for optimizing the process.
- It outlines how color and depth images can be combined to obtain a 3D effect, potentially useful in game development.
- The author recognises key challenges, such as achieving smooth gradients, and invites discussion around possible solutions. Commenters join the conversation with their personal experiences and insights.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37977938)

- The discussion revolves around autostereograms, or Magic Eye pictures, with users sharing experiences and techniques to view the concealed 3D images.
- Some topics of conversation include challenges in perceiving the images and comparisons with other 3D visualization methods.
- Participants also explore the potential of integrating stereograms into video games and associated subjects like Magic Eye pictures and stereo wideners in audio.

## [Killings in the U.S. are dropping at a historic rate](https://www.latimes.com/politics/newsletter/2023-10-20/killings-in-the-u-s-are-dropping-at-an-historic-rate-will-anyone-notice-essential-politics)

- Homicide rates in the U.S. have markedly declined, but public perception lags due to underreporting and recurring crime narratives.
- Despite fear-driven politics, voters are shifting towards prevention-centered crime strategies.
- The article discusses a range of political activities in California, including Laphonza Butler's Senate appointment and various fundraising campaigns by individuals like Adam Schiff, Katie Porter, Barbara Lee, and a Senate bid by Christina Pascucci.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37980609)

- The article discusses the discrepancy between the decreasing trend in U.S. homicide rates and the public's perception of crime, exploring various perspectives to explain this disconnect.
- It mentions factors such as the recording and reporting of other crime types, the impact of less aggressive policing, historical trends of lowering violent crime, and how these elements are shaping people's perceptions.
- The role of media, comparison between Seattle's crime rate and other cities, the president's influence on crime, and the concept of collective punishment are among other topics touched upon, hinting at the complexities of crime perception.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Who profits most from America's baffling health-care system?" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Who%20profits%20most%20from%20America's%20baffling%20health-care%20system%3F&subheading=Monday%2C%20October%2023%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
