---
slug: '/2023/10/24'
---

# 2023-10-24

## [Software disenchantment](https://tonsky.me/blog/disenchantment/)

- The author criticizes inefficiency in the software industry, pointing to issues of slow and bloated software. They express concern over the practice of prioritizing faster hardware over optimizing software.
- The author advocates for better software architecture and programming practices, with an emphasis on stability and quality, as a response to the observed errors and instability in web applications.
- Aimed at initiating discussion and improvement in the industry, the author supports the contribution to and adoption of open-source projects for better software solutions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37985176)

- The article raises questions regarding the impact of financial incentives, market pressures, and VC funding on software quality, in the context of pushing rapid product releases.
- It discusses trade-offs between profitability and software quality, with emphasis on aspects like complexity, performance, the prevalence of bugs, and the challenges of using languages like C++.
- The piece also challenges the prioritization of developer efficiency over user efficiency, with specific mention of the lack of financial motivation to refrain from using Docker for deployment.

## [Google pulls up the ladder on open internet, pushes unconstitutional regulation](https://www.techdirt.com/2023/10/23/google-decides-to-pull-up-the-ladder-on-the-open-internet-pushes-for-unconstitutional-regulatory-proposals/)

- Google has established a new policy framework aimed at protecting children online, introducing steps like age verification and enhanced parental supervision.
- Critics state this policy might adversely affect smaller businesses and restrict internet freedom, reflecting concerns about corporate motivations and potential political influences.
- The conversation also extends to topics like NSFW content, governmental regulation, and censoring on social media, while other tech news reports on a trademark lawsuit settlement, a fine reversal, and plans for citywide broadband.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37990031)

- The debate details topics associated with web regulation and child safety, highlighting concerns surrounding potentially censorious actions of Google through secure browsers.
- Suggestions to protect children online include the initiation of a "safe content" setting on operating systems, mandation of parental internet filters, and verification of children's website safety.
- Notable challenges in implementing these solutions are also raised, encompassing aspects relating to age verification measures, website certifications, and balancing technology with other societal factors.

## [SumatraPDF Reader](https://github.com/sumatrapdfreader/sumatrapdf)

- SumatraPDF is an open-source reader that supports multiple file formats like PDF, EPUB, MOBI, CBZ, and more.
- Made available for Windows, it operates under the (A)GPLv3 and BSD licenses.
- It boasts a significant presence on GitHub with over 11k stars, 1.6k forks, and contributions from 48 diverse contributors.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37993575)

- The thread focuses on the merits and drawbacks of SumatraPDF Reader, positioning it as an alternate to Adobe Acrobat for PDF processing. This includes its platform compatibility, lightweight footprint, and recent enhancements.
- The conversation also covers the need for seamless open-source PDF editing tools and the challenges of parsing and rendering PDF files, indicating the complexity of PDF workflows.
- While SumatraPDF is lauded for its performance and ease in navigating pages, users have encountered issues with printing and freezing on Mac. Additional features like the ability to drag tabs into new windows are also desired.

## [Mazda slaps developer with cease-and-desist for DIY smart home integration](https://www.thedrive.com/news/mazda-slaps-developer-with-cease-and-desist-for-diy-smart-home-integration)

- Mazda issued a cease-and-desist order to a developer who created open-source code that enhanced the functionality of Mazda cars, stating it violated copyright and replicated existing features.
- The developer complied with the order to avoid legal action, which has led to disappointment amongst Mazda owners who used the code to elevate their driving experience.
- This incident induces debates over the balance between cybersecurity, copyright laws, and the concept of fair use, along with an automaker's potential disregard of customer preferences for customization and autonomy in their vehicles.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37990990)

- Mazda has faced incidents of controversy due to their reluctance to permit customization and third-party access to their vehicles, by sending cease-and-desist letters and DMCA takedown notices to developers who created various integrations.
- The auto company justified its actions by citing legal, safety, and copyright reasons, but critics argue that it is limiting customization for profit and liability reasons.
- The discussion underscores the difficulties of interoperability and diminishing sense of ownership in the digital world, with commenters expressing displeasure at DMCA and suggesting alternative ways to safeguard developers and open-source code.

## [Woman wins 12-year legal battle against Google](https://www.abc.net.au/news/2023-10-23/janice-duffy-wins-12-year-legal-battle-against-google/103008954)

- Dr. Janice Duffy of Adelaide concluded her 12-year legal fight against Google, having won two defamation lawsuits against the tech giant.
- The case centered on Google's publishing of defamatory content from a website to its search engine page, even after Duffy's requests for the content's removal.
- Though the settlement details are confidential, this case emphasizes the emotional and financial strain of such proceedings and may lead to more responsibility for search engine companies to monitor their content more vigilantly.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37983903)

- A woman has won a 12-year lawsuit against Google over defamatory autocomplete suggestions, determining Google's responsibility for these suggestions and establishing a precedent for their removal upon notification.
- Various cases, including another in Australia, reflect the ongoing debate about search engine liability for defamatory content, the "right to be forgotten," and the balance between freedom of speech and reputation protection.
- The discussion extends to issues of public criminal records and privacy, further questioning the responsibility and regulation of search engines in handling potentially defamatory content.

## [Java implementation of a quantum computing resistant cryptographic algorithm](https://github.com/mthiim/dilithium-java)

- This text discusses a Java implementation of the Dilithium algorithm, a post-quantum cryptographic alternative to RSA (Rivest–Shamir–Adleman) and ECC (Elliptic-curve cryptography).
- This implementation supports three security levels and includes functions for generating keys, signing, verifying, as well as serializing/deserializing keys.
- It's explicitly stated that this implementation is not meant for production use and carries no warranty, but the code is freely accessible under the Apache 2.0 license.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37984404)

- The article focuses on the development of a quantum-resistant cryptographic algorithm in Java, with an emphasis on the current absence of production-ready libraries and promising prospects.
- Long-term data protection challenges and potential risks associated with implementing these new algorithms due to quantum computing advancement are discussed.
- Hybrid encryption, a combination of post-quantum and traditional cryptography, is suggested as a potential solution, albeit with concerns about its reliability and effects on digital currencies like Bitcoin.

## [UK government surveilling social media of teaching assistants](https://reclaimthenet.org/uk-government-caught-surveilling-social-media-of-teaching-assistants-and-librarians)

- The UK government's Department for Education has been monitoring and documenting social media activity of educators who voice criticism towards education policies.
- These records could have potential impacts on the professional careers of teaching assistants, librarians, among other educators.
- The surveillance measures extend beyond just educators, with attempts made to quiet critics of the government's policies. The Department is yet to comment on individual cases.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37987573)

- The UK government is reportedly monitoring social media accounts of teaching assistants, sparking debates around privacy and freedom of expression concerns.
- Critics perceive the surveillance and alleged punitive actions against those critiquing government policies as an overreach.
- Discussions in the thread also touch on the nation's stance towards privacy and free speech rights versus its surveillance emphasis, and the necessity of surveillance cameras for national security, reflecting differing opinions.

## [Cleveland launches plan to provide cheap broadband](https://www.techdirt.com/2023/10/23/tired-of-being-ripped-off-by-monopolies-cleveland-launches-ambitious-plan-to-provide-citywide-dirt-cheap-broadband/)

- Cleveland is investing $20 million in COVID relief funding for affordable broadband and has partnered with SiFi Networks to establish a $500 million fiber network free of charge to taxpayers.
- These initiatives aim to challenge the dominion of large ISPs, such as AT&T and Charter, who have frequently overlooked low-income and minority areas.
- While community-owned broadband networks could potentially lower costs and increase competition, possible hurdles include lawsuits from existing providers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37988483)

- Cleveland has initiated a new affordable, high-speed broadband service, contributing to the broader conversation about municipal broadband initiatives and government control of network connections.
- This initiative has sparked a debate around the advantages and disadvantages of government network control, where some see it as a means to enhance service and transparency, while others express concerns about potential power misuse.
- This discussion underscores the necessity for increased competition in the broadband market and the government's role in securing affordable broadband access, as evidenced by frustrations in Baltimore with Comcast's high prices and lack of competition.

## [How does macOS manage virtual cores on Apple Silicon?](https://eclecticlight.co/2023/10/23/how-does-macos-manage-virtual-cores-on-apple-silicon/)

- This article deals with the management of virtual cores by macOS on Apple's silicon chips, introducing two types of CPU cores: Efficiency (E) cores and Performance (P) cores.
- macOS allocates these cores according to the Quality of Service (QoS) settings of an app, determining how the cores can be used to optimize app performance.
- It discusses the challenges with using virtual machines (VMs) on Apple silicon hosts, namely the inability to allocate cores effectively and a lack of associated energy-efficiency benefits.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37991295)

- The article scrutinizes how macOS manages virtual cores on its Apple Silicon and how AMD and ARM implement big-little processing, which suggests a discussion about the tech industry's readiness for heterogeneous computing.
- It emphasizes the significant role of Operating System (OS) schedulers in determining core allocation; this could be linked to issues such as gaming performance and Docker problems on macOS.
- The article also discusses thread affinities in userspace programs, bookmark and tab management in web browsers, Chrome's use of tab groups, and the capacity for FPGAs in specialized processors, highlighting the efficiency of core architecture.

## [How to run 50% faster without external energy (2020)](https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/sciadv.aay1950)

- A study shows that a catapult-like exoskeleton device can improve running speed by over 50%, signifying the potential of unpowered robotic exoskeletons in enhancing human performance.
- The researchers suggest an innovative approach with variable stiffness springs attached to the limbs, potentially allowing humans to exceed natural running speed.
- Discussions about the physical requirements and limitations of augmented running indicate a need for more engineering innovations for running exoskeletons. Further, various articles and patents mentioned provide a multitude of sources for extended research on this technology.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37989875)

- The article delves into the idea of using spring-loaded devices to improve running speed and efficacy, discussing popular models such as the Nike Vaporfly and Alphafly shoes.
- It discusses potential treatments for plantar fasciitis, a painful foot condition that affects many athletes.
- The piece further debates the validity of pulling up on pedals to improve cycling performance and references a study on enhancing running efficiency by attaching springs to the feet.

## [1Password detects "suspicious activity" in its internal Okta account](https://arstechnica.com/security/2023/10/1password-detects-suspicious-activity-in-its-internal-okta-account/)

- 1Password, a password manager, has noticed suspicious activity on an internal account provided by Okta, an identity and authentication service that recently had a security breach.
- Despite the suspicious activity, 1Password confirmed there was no breach of user data or vulnerable systems; investigations are underway to ascertain how the attacker accessed the account.
- This incident is the second known targeted attack on Okta's customer and hints at the possibility of more customers being involved in the near future.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37993702)

- The summary delves into a security breach in Okta's internal accounts, igniting concerns about the security measures implemented by the company.
- The conversation debates thoroughly on the merits and demerits of password management via online services, the complexities in software vulnerabilities, and weighs in on self-hosting versus using third-party identity providers.
- It brings attention to a security breach via Okta affecting 1Password, a widely used password manager, promoting a discussion on the necessity of a decentralized vault for password management and criticism of centralized authentication.

## [Marcel the Shell](https://www.marceltheshell.org)

- Marcel is a contemporary shell that enhances composition by piping Python values instead of strings.
- It enables users to pass between commands built-in types and objects which stand for files and processes.
- More information and user guidance can be obtained from their tutorial.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37991746)

- The tech community is actively debating the necessity for a fresh shell in Linux, with suggestions such as PowerShell and Marcel surfacing.
- Marcel emerges as a focal point in the discussion; it's a Python-based shell known for its user-friendly attributes and compatibility with Python objects.
- Users exhibit curiosity over packaging Marcel for Nix and advise enhancements for the Marcel website, indicating active participation and shared interest in the project's development.

## [MSW 2.0 – Mock Service Worker](https://mswjs.io/blog/introducing-msw-2.0/)

- The author is introducing MSW 2.0, an important update to the Mock Service Worker library, which includes significant improvements such as a refined public API along with Fetch API primitives support.
- The update renders the need for polyfills obsolete and enhances Node.js compatibility, making MSW request handlers more reusable and adaptable.
- The release includes not only bug fixes and enhancements, but also some breaking changes; however, detailed migration guidelines are provided. The author warmly acknowledges contributors and encourages further sponsorship to boost future project development.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37985777)

- The post revolves around the beneficial experiences with MSW (Mock Service Worker) and OpenAPI in web development, including improved productivity and simplified development process.
- Users praise MSW's ability to generate code and create mock APIs, streamlining their workflow.
- Another unique, appreciated feature is MSW's capability to run the mock server in both browser and server environments.

## [Was any Starfighter postmortem ever published?](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37985450)

- Starfighter, a hiring startup founded by HN veterans, utilized a CTF/Microcorruption style test for recruitment purposes.
- The company has, unfortunately, closed down. The reasons behind this closure remain unspecified as no post-mortem analysis appears to have been written.
- The use of a Capture The Flag (CTF) or Microcorruption style test in recruitment is an innovative approach, demonstrating the company's unique perspective in the hiring process.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37985450)

- The debate revolves around hiring process challenges in the tech industry, citing issues with credential reliability and inefficacy of certain screening methods.
- Participants stress the need for alternative evaluation methods, emphasizing the importance of personal recommendations and previous experience in candidate assessment.
- The discussion brings up the possibility of apprenticeship programs and changes to the hiring process to correspond better with senior roles, reflecting on the difficulties startups face in the industry.

## [NASA just sent a software update to a spacecraft 12B miles away](https://bgr.com/science/nasa-just-sent-a-software-update-to-a-spacecraft-12-billion-miles-away/)

- NASA has transmitted a software update to Voyager 2, located over 12 billion miles from Earth, hoping to avoid the same issues Voyager 1 faced last year.
- The update, which took 18 hours to conclude, is intended as an insurance policy to extend the probe's lifespan.
- NASA has plans to use Voyager 2 as a trial. If successful, the same patch will be applied to Voyager 1.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37995119)

- NASA has successfully transmitted a software update to the Voyager 2 spacecraft, situated 12 billion miles from Earth, showcasing the engineering prowess and teamwork involved in this 50-year-long mission.
- The specific nature of the update and its size are not disclosed, but it's noted that Voyager 2 operates on custom-built computers with limited memory, indicating significant technical challenges.
- The post underlines the impressive ongoing maintenance of the Voyager 2 spacecraft post-40 years and introduces a broader space-related discussion including NASA's capabilities and comparisons with other entities like SpaceX.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Software disenchantment" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Software%20disenchantment&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20October%2024%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
