---
slug: '/2023/10/29'
---

# 2023-10-29

## [OpenSign – Open source alternative to DocuSign](https://github.com/OpenSignLabs/OpenSign)

- OpenSign is an open-source alternative to commercial document e-signing platforms such as DocuSign, PandaDoc, and SignNow.
- Features offered by OpenSign include secure document signing, user-friendly interface, multi-platform support, collaboration facilities, audit trails, completion certificates, and API integration.
- Developed by OpenSignLabs, OpenSign is licensed under the AGPL License, welcoming community contributions, and has garnered support and feedback from users and contributors.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38052344)

- OpenSign Labs has introduced OpenSign, an open-source alternative to DocuSign, sparking debate about the legality of digital signatures and the depth of OpenSign's legal research.
- The talk also centers on the need for uniform requirements for digital signatures across regions, citing the IT Act 2000 in India and eIDAS in Europe.
- Alongside, discussions on the security and reliability of OpenSign, the pros and cons of open-source software, and the role of trust and long-term feasibility in business products managing signed documents also highlighted.

## [FCC wants to bolster amateur radio](https://www.radioworld.com/news-and-business/business-and-law/fcc-wants-to-bolster-amateur-radio)

- The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) intends to modernize the amateur radio bands by replacing the baud rate (data transmission speed) limitation with a bandwidth limitation, aiming to foster innovation and enhance communication during emergencies.
- American Radio Relay League (ARRL), a body for amateur radio enthusiasts, supports this initiative.
- The FCC is deliberating on removing baud rate restrictions across other frequency bands too and is open to feedback on setting a suitable bandwidth limit. These updates are anticipated to significantly benefit amateur radio operators and bolster data communications.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38052577)

- The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is revising amateur radio regulations following a petition from the American Radio Relay League (ARRL), which may result in increased experimentation and new modulation techniques.
- Significant topics under FCC's consideration include Morse code, baud rate limits, encryption, potential benefits of encryption in amateur radio, and expanded frequencies and data transmission rates for operators.
- While the improvements bring excitement in the community, concerns about possible interference and restrictions on non-commercial and experimental radio activities have also been expressed.

## [MagicaVoxel – A free voxel art editor and interactive path tracing renderer](https://ephtracy.github.io/)

- MagicaVoxel is a free voxel art editor and renderer presenting multiple functionalities and shortcuts designed for crafting 3D models and animations. However, it cannot be commercially sold or bundled with other software.
- Recent updates have optimized animation creation, rendering, transformation editing, the material system, and brush options. The latest version brought forth improvements including new selection modes, adjustable brush options, and enhanced rendering quality.
- The tool incorporates additional unique features like camera control, pattern packs, language translation, and supports exporting voxel models in different formats with features like fog scattering and voxel shaders.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38050106)

- MagicaVoxel is a popular, free voxel art editor and path tracing renderer used extensively in creating voxel models and landscapes, such as in the open-source voxel MMORPG, Veloren.
- Though not open-source, it has a strong following due to its simplicity, enjoyable user experience, and compatibility with 3D printing. It has even spurred the development of similar tools.
- Some users have expressed the desire for future support for Linux and Apple Silicon, indicating the software's potential areas for growth and expansion.

## [Getting my library cards onto my phone the hard way](https://iliana.fyi/blog/ios-wallet-library-card/)

- The author narrates their experience of digitizing library cards to store them in the iPhone's Wallet app, delving into the technicalities like barcode formats and cryptographic signing.
- The article provides a comprehensive guide to creating a virtual library card pass using the pass specification and discusses distinct pass generator applications.
- A suggestion is made to include Codabar support (a barcode format used by many libraries) to Apple Wallet, expanding its functionality.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38050535)

- The article delves into the complexities and obstacles associated with using mobile phones for library and transit cards, with a particular focus on technology shortcomings in Seattle.
- It raises concerns about privacy when utilizing credit cards for transit, also discussing the merits of credit cards versus transit cards, and the challenges in sustaining fareless transit systems.
- Users show some confusion about downvotes on Hacker News for developing workarounds and writing scripts, pointing towards a broader debate on digital cards storage on smartphones.

## [Fixing the volume on my Bluetooth earbuds](https://blog.ornx.net/post/bluetooth-volume-fix/)

- The author shares their process of rectifying the volume issue on Tozo T6 earbuds, involving research, diagnosis, and firmware flashing using an Android app.
- The post details how the author set up an intercepting proxy to analyze network traffic and locate firmware files, overcoming encryption and compression challenges.
- Ultimately, the author successfully modifies the volume of system sound files in the firmware and flashes it to the device, presenting the endeavor as an enjoyable project and advocating for system sound-volume control.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38051488)

- The discussions revolve around the issues of Bluetooth devices notifying low battery alerts at max volume, connectivity problems, and volume control on iOS devices.
- Another key issue of discussion is the lack of user authority over system sounds on Bluetooth devices.
- Users share their personal experiences with these problems, along with potential workarounds and discuss Bluetooth's technical complexities.

## [Nitrogen electroreduction with almost 100% current-to-ammonia efficiency (2022)](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-022-05108-y)

- A recent study, published in Nature, focuses on the electroreduction of nitrogen to ammonia, applicable in sectors like renewable energy, transportation, and fertilizer production.
- Researchers, based at Monash University, discovered that a high-concentration imide-based lithium-salt electrolyte enabled high ammonia yield rates with a near 100% current-to-ammonia efficiency.
- These innovations could result in a more efficient and environmentally friendly method of ammonia production, which might have commercial applications via Jupiter Ionics.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38053586)

- A new research paper emphasizes a breakthrough in nitrogen electroreduction, yielding high efficiency in ammonia production via laser-induced multiphoton dissociation of lithium oxide.
- This method paves the way for local ammonia production and carbon-free fuel alternatives despite struggles with high energy consumption and safety concerns.
- The study also explores the efficient conversion of electricity into ammonia for energy storage, fertilizer, and fuel production, while addressing practicality and safety considerations, with discussions on scalability, toxicity, and the potential use of ammonia for explosive manufacturing.

## [Samsung disables customer phones remotely, holds data hostage [video]](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ln4rsxWq3WM)

- The summary highlights how manufacturers, especially Samsung, deactivate customer-owned devices, essentially locking users out of their data unless they buy a new product.
- Many consumers in Mexico who can't afford to purchase from official stores acquired these devices via gray markets, and the Mexican government has intervened, claiming these actions infringe upon consumer rights.
- Massive disapproval is directed towards Samsung, particularly for disabling devices and withholding users' data.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38050381)

- The article highlights concerns about Samsung's capability to remotely disable phones, which could lead to holding customer data hostage, negatively impacting its image and sales.
- It explores the limited range of secure smartphones and discusses alternative open-source operating systems, addressing issues of phone security, market availability, and consumer rights.
- The piece emphasizes the importance of privacy and control over personal data, and criticizes tech giants like Samsung, Apple, Microsoft, and Google for inconsistencies in this regard.

## [Arena Allocation in SBCL](https://github.com/sbcl/sbcl/blob/master/doc/internals-notes/arena-allocation.txt)

- The text provides an overview of a code repository for an open-source project named sbcl.
- The repository includes various essential files related to the project's internals, including documentation and code files.
- It also mentions a helpful tip of pressing Alt+F1 to access a menu of operations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38052564)

- The discussion thread on Hacker News revolves around Arena Allocation, a new feature of SBCL (Steel Bank Common Lisp), which lets users allocate memory in a specific arena and destroy it bypassing the garbage collector.
- The potential benefits and applicable scenarios of arena allocation are explored within the thread.
- The thread also discusses the likely relevance of this feature to large corporations like Google and ITA Software.

## [Are colonoscopies worth it?](https://asteriskmag.com/issues/04/you-re-invited-to-a-colonoscopy?ref=thebrowser.com)

- A trial studying the efficacy of colonoscopies in preventing colorectal cancer showed both positive and negative results, leading to varying responses.
- While a marked decrease in cancer incidence was observed, the reduction in mortality was minor, which has sparked debates on cost-effectiveness.
- Critics argue the study has flaws, hence further research is imperative to explore the full extent of advantages and disadvantages of colonoscopies in cancer prevention.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38055711)

- The discourse centers on the advantages and disadvantages of using colonoscopies as a screening technique for colorectal cancer.
- There are varying opinions, including individuals' experiences with alternative tests and concerns regarding possible financial interests linked to regular colonoscopies.
- The conversation also includes the effectiveness, limitations, and the possibility of non-invasive screening methods.

## [Friend's Chandler, Matthew Perry, died at 54](https://www.latimes.com/california/story/2023-10-28/freinds-star-matthew-perry-dead-at-56)

- "Friends" star Matthew Perry, famous for portraying Chandler Bing, has died at 54, with the cause of death presently not known, though foul play isn't suspected.
- Perry had previously battled with addiction but recently turned to writing as a form of therapy.
- Numerous tributes were received from his colleagues, friends, and fans; Perry had expressed a desire to be remembered as someone who led a good life and helped others.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38054860)

- Matthew Perry, known for his role on Friends, has died at 54, prompting discussions about the influence of celebrity deaths and aging.
- The conversation also encompasses emotional responses to such passings and the importance of seeking professional help if needed.
- A side-discussion addresses technology's potential role in anticipating fatal events, alongside divergent views on suburban vs. urban living, and how fame can lead to addiction.

## [React use C](https://github.com/elnardu/react-use-c)

- "elnardu/react-use-c" is a repository on GitHub that provides an interface for using the C programming language within the React framework.
- The repository is popular with 163 stars and has been forked twice, indicating its usability and the interest it's garnering in the community.
- It's built using JavaScript, HTML, and Makefile code, showcasing diverse coding languages in its construction.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38052416)

- The Hacker News post is a debate around the recent changes in the React ecosystem, specifically focusing on Next.js and server-side rendering.
- The discussion also explores the selection of resource-constrained chips for embedded development and balances this with the complexity and usage of JavaScript.
- The post also mentions alternative frameworks to React, indicating the diversity of opinions within the tech community regarding JavaScript's use and complexity.

## [Elixir and Phoenix can do it all](https://fly.io/phoenix-files/elixir-and-phoenix-can-do-it-all/)

- The article advocates for the use of Elixir and Phoenix in web development, praising their features such as support for concurrency, distribution, and remote function calling, achievable through the BEAM virtual machine.
- It further underscores the advantages of the Elixir programming language — like dependency management, testing tools, and a thorough standard library — increasing its functionality.
- It concludes by suggesting Fly.io as a suitable platform for running Phoenix applications, endorsing its effectiveness.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38052864)

- This article delves into the advantages of employing Elixir and Phoenix for the development of complex infrastructure, highlighting the ease and flexibility of managing different services within the same codebase.
- Major debates amongst developers and Hacker News users revolve around the absence of static typing in Elixir, with some contesting this feature as unnecessary while others deem it crucial.
- Other discussions on the post involve issues with learning materials and specific databases, alongside compliments for the ecosystem and tooling, with the limited adoption of Elixir largely attributed to the lack of major corporate support.

## [The Cruel Fantasies of Well-Fed People](https://www.monbiot.com/2023/10/04/the-cruel-fantasies-of-well-fed-people/)

- The article critiques Chris Smaje's book "A Small Farm Future," particularly his view on the unsustainability of high crop yields and urban living.
- The author of the article sees these beliefs as contributors to poverty and hunger, promoting a more interconnected approach to address global challenges and prevent societal collapse.
- The article spotlights the necessity to prioritize the well-being of people and the planet over personal interests, encouraging open-mindedness and a diverse approach to solutions.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38050236)

- The conversation touches on several issues related to food production and sustainability, including the harmful effects of livestock farming, challenges in shifting to vegan diets, and the significance of traditional farming methods.
- The discussion also includes aspects like urban local food production, sustainable farming, accessible and affordable healthy diets, obesity causes, the cost and availability of food globally, and looming agricultural crises.
- The post suggests solutions like transitioning industrial agriculture to renewable energy, minimizing dependency on animal products, and controlling population growth. Other topics like state farms, meat consumption, experiences with farming, and capitalism's role are also addressed.

## [The UK's Controversial Online Safety Act Is Now Law](https://www.wired.com/story/the-uks-controversial-online-safety-act-is-now-law/)

- The UK government's Online Safety Act is now law, intending to safeguard individuals, notably children, on the internet.
- Critics, however, argue that the act is inefficient in counteracting misinformation, infringes on privacy, and hands over extensive control to private companies. It may even compromise encryption by necessitating a scan of users' messages.
- The act's similarity to the Investigatory Powers Act has led some companies to contemplate exiting the UK. Meanwhile, the EU commissioner's threats against Elon Musk and his company are perceived as hollow by critics.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38048811)

- The UK's Online Safety Act has prompted debates revolving around privacy, data protection, freedom of information, and effectiveness of age verification methods.
- Critics assert that the legislation could result in communication charges based on false information and uneven legal defence; some even contemplate blocking UK visitors to their websites as a form of protest.
- The law initiated broader discussions about dealing with online misinformation and its repercussions on freedom of expression; a periphery debate also emerged involving urban planning, public transportation, and authoritarianism.

## [The Windows installer of ImageMagick will no longer be signed](https://github.com/ImageMagick/ImageMagick/discussions/6826)

- The Windows installer of ImageMagick will not be signed anymore due to the expiration of their code signing certificate, which they can't export and use in GitHub actions anymore.
- The team is currently contemplating a cloud solution, with Digicert as the only option at present, charging $629 for a single year.
- While they're inviting sponsorships for obtaining a code signing certificate, some users have suggested alternatives like SignPath and Azure KeyVault.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38055816)

- The dialogue centers around the struggles open-source projects face in acquiring and renewing code signing certificates for their software, with criticisms on its high costs and inefficiencies.
- Discussions on financial sustainability, the requirement for improved funding and security systems, and alternative solutions like Azure Key Vault, a cloud service for securely storing and accessing cryptographic keys, are also prevalent.
- Emphasis is laid on the significance of identity verification, trust in code, and concerns around proprietary software and self-signed certificates. The worth and weaknesses of ImageMagick, an open-source software suite for image editing, are also noted.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="OpenSign – Open source alternative to DocuSign" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=OpenSign%20%E2%80%93%20Open%20source%20alternative%20to%20DocuSign&subheading=Sunday%2C%20October%2029%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
