---
slug: '/2023/10/05'
---

# 2023-10-05

## [An interactive intro to CRDTs](https://jakelazaroff.com/words/an-interactive-intro-to-crdts/)

- The post delves into the idea of Conflict-free Replicated Data Types (CRDTs) and their role in developing collaborative applications.
- The blog centers around state-based CRDTs and offers examples such as Last Write Wins Register and Last Write Wins Map.
- The article further explains the implementation of the Last Write Wins (LWW) Map class with included code snippets for data management in LWW registers, hinting at a possible future post.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37764581)

- The article delves into CRDTs (Conflict-free Replicated Data Types) and their role in text editing and collaborative document systems.
- It underscores the importance of comprehending the basic operations of CRDTs through actual code examples and discusses the challenges and trade-offs of using CRDTs in a local-first set-up.
- In the accompanying forum discussion, there's debate over the use of CRDTs versus operational transforms in collaborative editing software, underpinning the relevance of CRDTs in popular applications.

## [The FTC sues to break up Amazon over an economy-wide “hidden tax”](https://www.thebignewsletter.com/p/the-ftc-sues-to-break-up-amazon-over)

- The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and 17 states have launched an antitrust lawsuit against Amazon, accusing it of monopolization and unfair competition primarily because of its Prime membership program.
- The allegations put forth in the lawsuit include the high fees charged to third-party sellers leading to increased consumer prices, discouraging sellers from offering cheaper prices on other platforms, and deteriorating the user experience.
- If the suit is successful, it could result in lower prices, heightened competition, and possible remedies like putting an end to anti-discounting measures or splitting up Amazon. The complaint also brings up the secretive nature of antitrust courts and Amazon’s document destruction.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37763424)

- The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) is suing Amazon, alleging hidden taxes through its advertising model that increase costs. Similarly, the California Attorney General accuses Amazon of anti-competitive practices.
- Crucial issues such as price manipulation, competition, and Amazon’s ‘buy box’ impact on customer choices and competition are discussed. The Reddit comments focus on Amazon's Most Favored Nation (MFN) clauses, which sparked concerns about market fairness.
- Discussion also encompasses Amazon’s control over the e-commerce market, the difficulty of creating competition for platforms like Amazon, its policy requiring the lowest prices compared to other platforms, and potential government intervention.

## [Classic Video Poker](https://lfgslots.com/classicvideopoker/)

- The individual is a proficient Unity 3D expert who has successfully founded and managed their consultancy.
- They appreciate Godot, an advanced open-source 2D and 3D game engine, and have been able to leverage it efficiently.
- They are seeking to establish a specialized firm that develops 80's style games for corporations, and they're currently on the lookout for leads, specifically for creating a Space Invaders game for Nike. A commission is offered for work secured.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37763098)

- The author, a Unity 3D expert, has started using the Godot game engine, through which they developed a video poker game and received positive feedback, despite a payout bug for a pair of Aces.
- The discussions focus on game loading time in Godot, comparisons with other engines like Unity, the use of CRT shader visuals, and common challenges and rewards in game development.
- Feedback regarding the video poker game includes suggestions on the use of C# instead of GDScript in Godot, gameplay improvements, crash and freezing issues, and discussions around the history of video poker.

## [Pixel 8 Pro](https://store.google.com/product/pixel_8_pro?hl=en-US)

- Google is running a promotional offer where customers purchasing the new Pixel 8 Pro can get a free Pixel Watch 2 or Pixel Buds Pro.
- The Pixel 8 Pro presents advanced features like Google AI, a sophisticated camera system, increased low-light photography, and video recording capacities. It also emphasizes safety with crisis alerts and various protection layers.
- Google is also providing financing options, protection plans, a trade-in program, and free shipping. Synchrony Bank's offer of 0% APR financing on the phone and other qualifying purchases is worth mentioning.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37766446)

- The discussions speak about the negative environmental and consumer impact of frequent smartphone releases, with frustrations being voiced over the minor hardware improvements and short lifespan of these devices.
- Participants suggest phones with user-replaceable batteries and removable storage to increase lifespan, addressing preferences for upgradable parts, minimal software bloat, and reliability issues with microSD cards.
- The dialogue also covers iPhone slow down issue, consumer attitudes towards upgrades, perceived difference in innovation between Apple and Qualcomm, and future tech advancements. Environmental concerns, a desire for longer-lasting devices, and solutions like open Linux-based phones are also discussed.

## [Pythagorean Theorem found on clay tablet 1k years older than Pythagoras](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1057/jt.2009.16)

- The Pythagorean Theorem, while often attributed to Pythagoras, might have been known to Babylonian mathematicians earlier.
- This theorem holds significant value in both the field of physics and mathematics, where it continues to be applied.
- Notable mathematicians such as Euclid and Pierre de Fermat also made substantial contributions, amplifying the theorem's importance and relevance today.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37774580)

- A clay tablet potentially predating Pythagoras has been discovered, showcasing the theorem well known to him, linking mathematics and spirituality.
- The forum thread discussion questions the theorem's historical attribution to Pythagoras, also delving into topics like the significance of names and emergence of technology.
- The thread also presents debate over the authenticity of a mentioned academic journal, illustrating the scrutiny of sources in academic discussion.

## [Strong static typing, a hill I'm willing to die on](https://www.svix.com/blog/strong-typing-hill-to-die-on/)

- The article highlights the benefits of strong typing in software development, mainly catching errors during compile-time and defining contracts between code sections.
- It discusses how typing can enhance the development experience and prevent bugs, using examples and scenarios for illustration.
- The author concludes that the advantages of strong typing outweigh its drawbacks and promotes its integration into programming practices.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37764326)

- The discussions delve into the effectiveness and challenges of static typing in programming languages, with some arguing it improves error catching and readability, while others argue dynamic typing allows for greater agility and robust testing.
- Specific type systems, such as TypeScript, are also pored over regarding their limitations. However, there's no clear consensus on whether static or dynamic typing is superior, and academic findings remain inconclusive.
- Other related topics, including autocomplete, deserialization, validation, and the critical significance of exhaustive testing, are discussed.

## [Vespa.ai is spinning out of Yahoo as a separate company](https://blog.vespa.ai/vespa-is-becoming-its-own-company/)

- Vespa.ai, a big data serving engine, is becoming a separate entity from Yahoo. The engine is known for implementing AI algorithms to manage and utilize large data sets efficiently.
- Despite the separation, Vespa will maintain a partnership with Yahoo and plans to expand its cloud services to assist more enterprises in resolving AI and big data issues.
- The company intends to hasten the development of new features to enable customers to devise superior solutions at reduced costs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37769962)

- Vespa.ai, an AI-based search engine by Yahoo, is transitioning into a standalone company while keeping Yahoo as a shareholder. This plan is to gain access to public capital markets and leverage the expanding AI industry.
- Users commend the maturity and capabilities of Vespa, although there are worries regarding its prospects as an independent organization.
- The discussion encompasses comparisons with alternative database solutions, Yahoo's profitability, and potential missed prospects for the company.

## [Pixel 8 to have seven years of Android updates](https://www.theverge.com/2023/10/4/23899900/google-pixel-8-pro-android-updates-7-years-security-features)

- Google announces extended support for its Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro, promising seven years of OS and security updates until 2030.
- This extended support, a leap from Google's previous policy, surpasses its Android competition and is made possible due to Google's use of its own Tensor processor.
- Despite similar long-term support offered by Apple and even longer by Fairphone, skepticism exists due to Google's inconsistent history of supporting other services and initiatives.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37766122)

- The Pixel 8 smartphone is anticipated to get seven years of Android updates, however, questions arise about the feasibility of this given the limited battery lifespan and the high cost of replacements.
- Users are debating the pros and cons of user-replaceable batteries and their effects on e-waste, with the cost and availability of battery replacements being a primary concern.
- Comparisons between Google's commitment to software updates for the Pixel 8 and Apple's support policies are drawn, including discussions about Google's track record and the potential for using custom ROMs.

## [Eliminating radio interference from Apple charger](https://oh8hub.substack.com/p/eliminating-radio-interference-from)

- OH8HUB's blog post talks about the issue of radio interference caused by Apple's wireless charger.
- It details how using a ferrite bead component and wrapping the charger's USB wire around it can dampen problematic frequencies.
- The author suggests that Apple should consider this issue in their future product designs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37769139)

- The conversation centers on the problem of radio interference resulting from Apple chargers, specifically how it affects aviation frequencies.
- Questions are raised regarding the approval of these devices by the FCC, the Federal Communications Commission, and the efficiency of their disturbance-filtering mechanisms.
- Various solutions for minimizing this interference are suggested, such as the use of RF chokes and ferrite beads, coupled with the need for better design practices and adherence to emission norms.

## [1.3B Worldcat scrape and data science mini-competition](https://annas-blog.org/worldcat-scrape.html)

- Anna's Archive has extracted data from the Worldcat library metadata collection to host a data science mini-competition.
- The extracted dataset consists of 1.8 billion records and the organization is welcoming submissions for the competition.
- There's a call for volunteers to analyze this data, participate in book preservation, and contribute to their initiatives.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37764088)

- The article explores the monopoly of the OCLC on Dewey Decimal system and Worldcat database, emphasizing the need for sustainable funding while maintaining public accessibility.
- It mentions copyright concerns regarding the Dewey Decimal system and suggests consideration of alternatives.
- The piece further highlights an instance where Anna's Archive scraped OCLC's database, underlining the importance and challenges of harvesting accurate and comprehensive book metadata. The article indicates potential opportunities for additional valuable datasets amidst frustrations with accessing accurate ISBN metadata.

## [OpenSSH 9.5 released with keystroke timing obfuscation](https://lwn.net/Articles/946497/)

- OpenSSH 9.5 has been launched introducing new features like a ping mechanism and keystroke timing cover-up, yet missing the MPTCP support.
- There's ongoing conversation about forking OpenSSH to incorporate features such as MPTCP and AF_VSOCK.
- The dialogues also encompass the uptake of certain features within the Linux and BSD kernels, alongside the obstacles when applying new networking protocols.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37765158)

- OpenSSH version 9.5 has been introduced which includes keystroke timing obfuscation and a switch from RSA to Ed25519 key generation, enhancing security and stability.
- Azure currently does not support Ed25519 keys, leading to potential compatibility issues.
- The release has ignited discussions about Rambus, a technology company engaged in cryptography and patents, and debates over the advantages and disadvantages of the Ed448 cryptographic algorithm and preference for smaller, faster keys in SSH.

## [How US intelligence agencies hid their most shameful experiments](https://lithub.com/how-us-intelligence-agencies-hid-their-most-shameful-experiments/)

- The article delves into the ethical concerns and lack of accountability in covert science conducted by US intelligence agencies, including CIA's mind-control experiments.
- It touches on the CIA's power quest with enhanced interrogation techniques and points out ethical issues and questionable effectiveness of these experiments.
- The article acknowledges the efforts of the principal investigator at History Lab, an NSF-funded project at Columbia University, in using data science to maintain public records.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37766711)

- The article discusses controversial and hidden experiments undertaken by US intelligence agencies like CIA's project MKUltra and mentions some ESP experiments referenced in Alan Turing's essay.
- It highlights the need for transparency, oversight, and accountability in intelligence agencies, stressing how whistleblowing often fails to result in significant structural changes.
- The piece also compares the US intelligence community's penchant for data collection to the Chinese government, probing various conspiracy theories, allegations of corruption, and geopolitical events to understand the motivations behind certain actions.

## ["You have a 27% 'AI' issue in here"](https://twitter.com/rustykitty_/status/1709316764868153537)

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37767205)

- The Twitter discussion revolves around topics such as education, automation, plagiarism, and the use of AI in evaluation, highlighting concerns about decreased human interaction in various industries.
- Participants are questioning the effectiveness of current evaluation methods and the potential ramifications of over-reliance on AI. There is a debate around the utility of homework, the value of in-person lectures, and difficulties in executing alternative assessment techniques.
- Issues are raised about the potential misuse of AI plagiarism detection tools, the ramifications of cheating in academia, and the perceived decrease in learning quality due to the integration of AI in education.

## [1.1.1.1 lookup failures on October 4th, 2023](https://blog.cloudflare.com/1-1-1-1-lookup-failures-on-october-4th-2023/)

- On October 4th, 2023, Cloudflare faced DNS (Domain Name System) resolution issues because of an internal software bug, leading to SERVFAIL DNS responses and preventing the use of new root zone versions.
- The problem, which resulted in validation errors, was rectified by discontinuing the use of the old root zone file.
- Cloudflare is planning measures to avert similar occurrences in the future, which involve enhancing their monitoring and testing procedures.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37770523)

- On October 4th, 2023, Cloudflare faced an outage due to a DNSSEC signature expiry causing internet connection problems for users.
- Users have voiced concerns over the lack of alerts and advised enhancements in monitoring practices.
- Despite criticisms about Cloudflare's dominance and influence on internet infrastructure, supporters maintain that it provides valuable solutions and has managed to scale effectively in the market.

## [Issues with 1.1.1.1 public resolver and WARP](https://www.cloudflarestatus.com/incidents/j3h00yhjyw6p)

- Cloudflare reported DNS resolution problems with their 1.1.1.1 public resolver and WARP services, leading to various issues for users.
- They identified the issue and are working to rectify it, with some impact still ongoing.
- Concurrently, Cloudflare is witnessing an uptick in Pages build failures. They are closely monitoring the outcomes of the fix.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37763143)

- Cloudflare's public resolver (1.1.1.1) and WARP service are facing challenges with archive.is links because of incompatible DNS extension support. Archive.is seems to deliberately return false results to Cloudflare's resolvers, possibly over security worries.
- Cloudflare is developing an alternative solution to address these issues. This situation has led to a broader conversation about DNS security and privacy, including the implementation of DNS-over-HTTPS (DoH).
- Other points of discussion include the role of DNS resolvers in providing parental control and ad-blocking features, data retention policies, the use of alternative DNS resolver services, and the crucial need for redundancy in DNS servers.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="An interactive intro to CRDTs" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=An%20interactive%20intro%20to%20CRDTs&subheading=Thursday%2C%20October%205%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
