---
slug: '/2023/10/14'
---

# 2023-10-14

## [Why you shouldn't join Y Combinator](https://newsletter.smallbets.co/p/why-you-shouldnt-join-y-combinator)

- The article provides a critical analysis of the Y Combinator startup accelerator, calling into question the success rate and the effectiveness of its methodologies.
- It posits that focusing on smaller, reliable successes and building up multiple sources of income may offer a more sustainable strategy for long-term business success.
- Y Combinator is a well-known startup accelerator; the critique of its approach suggests a need for a broader conversation about best entrepreneurship practices.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37869760)

- The main topic of discussion is the potential benefits and disadvantages of joining Y Combinator and obtaining venture capital for startups, with varied opinions prominent in the debate.
- There is a focus on the complexities of running a successful Software as a Service (SaaS) business, managing technical debt, achieving work-life balance, and the necessity of financial planning and strategizing.
- Alternative pathways to success, such as bootstrapping or borrowing, are also discussed along with the importance of identifying personal goals to inform decision-making.

## [Every app that adds AI looks like this](https://botharetrue.substack.com/p/every-app-that-adds-ai-looks-like)

- Alex Dobrenko, a TV actor and writer, criticizes the excessive use and promotion of artificial intelligence (AI) functions in tech companies' applications.
- Dobrenko sees the AI trend as companies mimicking each other and trying to profit from this latest trend, often marketing their AI features as groundbreaking yet delivering mediocre results.
- He advocates for tempering the AI hype and expresses personal dislike for the term.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37870437)

- The debate centers on the over-exploitation and hype of artificial intelligence (AI) in various sectors, with concerns over the absence of innovative and functional AI products and the need to solve real problems before incorporating AI.
- Participants express skepticism and frustration about misleading marketing strategies, media bias, and the lack of ethical considerations and transparency within the AI industry.
- The author criticizes corporate attempts at implementing generative AI, pointing out the challenges of effective AI implementation, and suggests focusing on the specific benefits and problem-solving capabilities of products rather than relying on the vague and overused term "AI".

## [TimeGPT-1](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03589)

- The authors present TimeGPT, a foundational model for time series that can provide accurate predictions across various datasets.
- The model outperforms others in terms of efficiency, simple implementation, and superior predictive performance.
- The study implies that large-scale time series models like TimeGPT can facilitate wider access to precise predictions and minimize uncertainty.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37874891)

- The author questions the efficacy of deep learning models for time series forecasting, suggesting that traditional models might outperform them.
- The discussion scrutinizes TimeGPT, a featured model, criticising its lack of comparison with other models, and debates the effectiveness of language models in time series prediction.
- The absence of open-sourced models and detailed benchmarking is underscored, with speculation regarding financial incentive to keep new techniques secret; the utility of historical data and the potential impact of open-sourced AI algorithms on the market are also discussed.

## [CIA publicly acknowledges 1953 coup it backed in Iran was undemocratic](https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/cia-publicly-acknowledges-1953-coup-backed-iran-was-undemocratic-revis-rcna120154)

- The CIA publicly admits the 1953 coup it endorsed in Iran was undemocratic in a recent podcast, wherein it also provides new insights about the 1979 US Embassy seizure in Iran.
- Even though the CIA’s acknowledgement is significant, a large part of the official history of the coup still remains classified, which continues to strain the USA-Iran relationship.
- Iran's mission to the United Nations undermines the CIA's admission, insisting it has not led to any corrective measures or demonstrated a firm promise to avoid future meddling.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37873621)

- The text discusses various geopolitical issues including CIA operations, Israeli-Palestinian conflict, various conspiracy theories, and US foreign policy in the Middle East.
- Readers have conflicting views, some arguing for greater transparency, accountability, and ethics in intelligence agencies and US foreign actions.
- The passage underscores the intricate history and context surrounding these topics, highlighting potential repercussions of past actions.

## [The whole of the Whole Earth Catalog is now online](https://www.wired.com/story/whole-earth-catalog-now-online-internet-archive/)

- The Whole Earth Catalog, a DIY guide and review publication influential in Silicon Valley's startup culture, has been made available online for free.
- The digital collection is a collaborative effort between Gray Area, the Long Now Foundation, and the Internet Archive, encapsulating the catalog's historical legacy.
- It is hoped that it will eventually embrace all artifacts from the original catalog, featuring diverse topics ranging from science to social justice, allowing the re-release's influence to be interpreted by its readership.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37872774)

- The iconic publication, The Whole Earth Catalog, is now digitally accessible, creating both anticipation and reminiscence among its readers.
- Online discussions are ongoing about the catalog's impact, its role in inspiring the maker movement, and the potential application of its content in artificial intelligence training.
- Users are circulating links to the online archive of the catalog and engaging in conversations about corresponding publications.

## [How to cook ground meat perfectly without vision](https://theblindkitchen.com/how-to-cook-ground-meat-perfectly-every-time/)

- This article presents advice on how to correctly cook ground meat, particularly for those who are blind or visually impaired.
- Techniques include adding oil to the pan, breaking the meat into chunks before cooking, listening to the sizzle, and using smell to assess when the meat is done.
- The article also suggests using a long-handled utensil and a unique straining method, negating the need for an additional strainer. It is authored by Chef Debra Erickson on The Blind Kitchen website.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37876988)

- The summary emphasizes on techniques and strategies for visually impaired individuals to cook ground meat, using sensory cues and specialized tools.
- It underscores the importance of accessibility in the kitchen for visually impaired individuals.
- Techniques such as using vegetable oil, listening for specific sounds while cooking, and employing particular smart kitchen devices are suggested for aid in cooking without sight.

## [Tainting the CSAM client-side scanning database](https://blog.xot.nl/2023/10/11/tainting-the-csam-client-side-scanning-database/index.html)

- The European Commission's proposed regulation to combat child sexual abuse could be susceptible to function creep, in which the client-side scanning system may detect non-CSAM (child sexual abuse material) content.
- There're potential risks that entities with access could adulterate the CSAM database with non-relevant data, affecting communication and raising privacy issues.
- Success of this proposed system hinges on the abuse centers' capacity to spot and manage false positives and malicious entries; hence, the design and handling of reports in the client-side scanning system are critical.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37870557)

- Apple's proposed CSAM (Child Sexual Abuse Material) client-side scanning database is under scrutiny due to concerns over potential exploitation, possibilities of false positives, automated censorship, and a need for user privacy protection.
- The discussion highlights potential vulnerabilities and possible misuse of perceptual hash scanning systems used for CSAM detection, impacting user privacy and possible abuse by authorities.
- The discourse also extends to the exploitation of the YouTube content protection system, the absence of penalties for false copyright claims, and topics around manipulated hashes, false accusations, AI-generated CSAM, possession laws, and the efficiency of scanning systems.

## [Takeaways from hundreds of LLM finetuning experiments with LoRA](https://lightning.ai/pages/community/lora-insights/)

- The article introduces Lit-GPT, an open-source large language model that allows customization.
- It reviews the application of a finetuning technique called LoRA, stressing the significance of correct settings and hyperparameters for training custom language models.
- The author experimented with multiple methods including quantized LoRA to optimize Lit-GPT's performance and memory usage.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37870930)

- The article explores the use of LoRA (Low Rank Adaptation) for fine-tuning large language models (LLMs) to enhance performance, lower memory consumption, and decrease training time.
- Key discoveries highlight the effect of various optimization techniques and hyperparameter selections on memory savings, training speed, and model performance.
- The optimized LoRA model showcased an advancement in multiple benchmarks in comparison to the base LLM model, and the article provides practical advice for tuning LoRA's hyperparameters.

## [Signal Identification Wiki](https://www.sigidwiki.com/wiki/Signal_Identification_Guide)

- The mentioned wiki is a comprehensive resource for identifying radio signals, focusing mainly on signals received and recorded through software defined radios.
- It features an editable format, fostering interactive engagement through a discussion tab, and offers offline access to known reference signals via a companion app known as Artemis 3.
- The wiki maintains a recorded database of identified, unidentified, and requested signals and also provides updates on recently added or modified signals.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37869534)

- The Signal Identification WikiHacker Newspastlogin website discusses various aspects of signal identification and amateur radio communication, serving as a knowledge and resource-sharing community platform.
- Users share information about upcoming events, resources for signal identification, and affordable hardware availability for radio enthusiasts.
- The conversations also delve into the potential applications of machine learning and artificial intelligence in signal identification.

## [Removal of Mazda Connected Services integration](https://www.home-assistant.io/blog/2023/10/13/removal-of-mazda-connected-services-integration/)

- Mazda has sent a cease and desist letter to an open-source contributor, resulting in the removal of a library that interfaced with Mazda's services.
- The removal has affected Home Assistant's integration named 'Mazda Connected Services', a part of Home Assistant home automation system prioritizing local control and privacy.
- Home Assistant, expressing disappointment, invites Mazda for a discussion on potential pros of this integration, comparing with other automobile manufacturers like Tesla and Audi, which have accepted similar integrations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37874220)

- Mazda has demanded a website to remove its Mazda Connected Services integration, alleging it overlaps with their app stores' offerings, spurring debate on the legality of this claim.
- The automaker is accused of misusing a DMCA notice against an open-source platform, leading to backlash and accusations of prioritizing profit over user freedom.
- The issue has spurred concern over the potential risks of integrating vehicles with automation platforms.

## [iSponsorBlockTV v2: SponsorBlock for TVs and game consoles](https://github.com/dmunozv04/iSponsorBlockTV)

- The iSponsorBlockTV project is an open-source tool designed to allow users to avoid sponsor segments and ads while viewing YouTube videos on different TV devices like Apple TV, Samsung TV, and LG TV.
- This project is written in Python and integrates the SponsorBlock API to auto-skip these segments, demonstrating an active approach to improving viewing experiences.
- The project is actively maintained, encourages contributions from other developers, and is licensed under the GPL-3.0 license, promoting open collaboration and advancements in ad-blocking technologies.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37873749)

- iSponsorBlockTV v2 is a new tool designed to help users skip sponsored segments and ads in videos, including on YouTube, enhancing their media consumption experience.
- Users report improved focus and mood from avoiding advertisements but voice frustrations with reminder prompts in videos and YouTube's ad experience.
- The discussion also covers the implications of using such tools on content creator's revenue and analytics.

## [Scalar: Generate interactive API documentations from Swagger files](https://github.com/scalar/scalar)

- The software project 'Scalar' creates interactive API documentations from Swagger files, offering features like various language request examples, an integrated API client, and the capability to edit Swagger files.
- Scalar is open-source and customizable, supporting different themes and advanced styling. It is compatible with Vue.js and React and offers additional packages.
- The project welcomes contributions from the public and is licensed under the MIT license, promoting collective development and innovation.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37871577)

- Scalar is a tool that creates interactive API documentation from Swagger files; its notable features include customization options and positive user feedback.
- Scalar-UI, another open-source tool for API documentation, plans to incorporate support for token OAuth bearer authentication to enhance its offering.
- The company is planning further contributions to the Swagger-UI and OpenAPI ecosystem, such as a dedicated REST API client and improvements in API documentation via JavaScript usage.

## [What I wish I knew when I got my ASN](https://quantum5.ca/2023/10/10/what-i-wish-i-knew-when-i-got-my-asn/)

- The text guides on obtaining an Autonomous System Number (ASN) for network setup, emphasizing the need to understand Regional Internet Registries (RIRs) policies, with a focus on RIPE and ARIN.
- It advises creating an Org ID, requesting IP addresses, and requesting an ASN, and registering on PeeringDB, a database for Internet peering agreements, and suggests finding a BGP (Border Gateway Protocol)-capable server or colocation provider.
- It ends with advice for RIPE Local Internet Registries (LIRs) and BGP-capable hosting providers, pointing to the technical considerations in setting up a network.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37869220)

- The author expresses bewilderment and dissatisfaction with utilizing ULAs (Unique Local Addresses) in IPv6 and the hurdles in acquiring steady addresses without an ASN (Autonomous System Number).
- They contemplate running IPv4 locally, using RFC1918 addresses, a move that contradicts the objective of advancing IPv6.
- Options for alternate solutions and advice on obtaining peers for full tables are discussed.

## [Jesus nut](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jesus_nut)

- The term "Jesus nut" refers to the main rotor retaining nut in helicopters, a component whose failure could lead to catastrophic results.
- This slang term originated during the Vietnam War and can be applied to any engineering components integral to system functioning.
- Despite its critical function, actual defaults on the Jesus nut are rare, but it must be examined before every flight.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37872850)

- The key topic revolves around the "Jesus nut," a crucial component in helicopters responsible for securing the rotor - and the implications if the rotor speed greatly diminishes.
- The discussion extrapolates this term metaphorically in the context of single points of failure in software engineering, with a parallel drawn between the vital role of the "Jesus nut" and crucial elements in software design.
- Additional topics include workarounds for insufficient Ethernet ports, helicopter safety engineering, as well as cost and regulatory considerations in the aviation industry.

## [Blue Frontier and its energy-efficient AC](https://www.technologyreview.com/2023/10/04/1080128/2023-climate-tech-companies-blue-frontier-air-conditioning-energy-storage-climate-technology/)

- Blue Frontier, a startup, has developed an energy-efficient air conditioning system that drastically reduces greenhouse gas emissions, using alternative refrigerants and energy storage to prevent grid overload.
- Compared to traditional units, these AC units are three times more efficient, reducing energy consumption by over 60% and potentially lowering greenhouse gas emissions by over 80%.
- While still in the early development stages and facing competition from industry leaders, Blue Frontier has secured $26 million in funding and plans to commence manufacturing for commercial buildings in 2025.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37870737)

- Blue Frontier, a startup, has created a more energy-efficient air conditioning system that utilizes a desiccant to eliminate moisture, potentially leading to a 90% reduction in electricity usage.
- The company is in preliminary stages and still requires field testing to confirm the system's effectiveness; however, there is potential for its use in AC subscription services and seasonal optimization.
- Concerns have been voiced regarding the maintenance requirements, desiccant replacement, and the overall efficiency of such air conditioning systems.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Why you shouldn't join Y Combinator" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Why%20you%20shouldn't%20join%20Y%20Combinator&subheading=Saturday%2C%20October%2014%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
