---
slug: '/2023/10/30'
---

# 2023-10-30

## [YouTube's Anti-Adblock and uBlock Origin](https://andadinosaur.com/youtube-s-anti-adblock-and-ublock-origin)

- YouTube has been intensifying its attempts to counteract adblockers, initiating a tug-of-war between itself and adblocker developers, including targeting other privacy extensions and tracking protection settings.
- Reddit users face difficulties in seeking useful information, with some resorting to sharing detrimental filters that may result in their adblockers being completely blocked.
- The pressure on the adblocker developers has caused team member attrition and account deletion, hinting at a potential future where the adblockers might acquiesce.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38061187)

- Topics on Hacker News focus on YouTube's implementation of anti-adblock measures and the ensuing debates on the ethical considerations of ad-blocking.
- Some users express dissatisfaction with YouTube's ad-free subscription service, the challenges faced by free software developers, and discuss the varying attitudes towards open-source software and free online services.
- Concerns are raised about privacy violations, the influence of ad-blocking on YouTube, issues related to open-source project maintenance, effects on content creators, and the efficacy of ad vetting.

## [I accidentally saved my company half a million dollars](https://ludic.mataroa.blog/blog/i-accidentally-saved-half-a-million-dollars/)

- The article captures the author's experience of saving their company $500,000 by optimizing an analytics platform and tackling operational inefficiencies.
- It underscores the obstacles encountered, including technical debt, an inadequate budgeting process, and departmental resistance, despite achieving significant cost savings.
- The author voices discontent over a lack of recognition or reward despite their substantial financial contribution to the company.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38069710)

- The article discusses the issues with convoluted and inefficient company processes particularly seen when driven by resume-centric or iterative-StackOverflow development methods, suggesting simplification could lead to success.
- The comments section concentrates on problems in client-based settings, disillusionment with work environments at FAANG (Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix, Google) companies, and underappreciation of profit-generating employees.
- It concludes advocating for a work culture promoting action and efficiency while critiquing the concept of technology being subservient to finance departments.

## [π in Other Universes](https://azeemba.com/posts/pi-in-other-universes.html)

- The article discusses the determination of the value of pi, a fundamental mathematical constant, and how it's influenced by the definition of distance.
- It introduces concepts like Euclidean and Manhattan distances, metrics that influence the calculation of pi.
- It mentions that the lowest possible value of pi is 3.14159 across all metrics, but countless other metrics see pi ranging between 3 and 4. This suggests the value of pi is not absolute but depends on factors like the chosen metric.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38063536)

- The discussion revolves around numerous aspects of mathematics, featuring its interpretation as a logic game and its applicability and scalability.
- The conversation sheds light on the origins of mathematics and its intertwined relationship with science, as well as the navigation of novel and esoteric mathematical concepts.
- The dialogue also reflects on the discretionary nature of mathematical axioms, the implications of pi, the idea of diverse circle constants, and the consideration of reading a comprehensive treatise on measure theory.

## [Apple's Blue Ocean](https://hypercritical.co/2023/10/29/apples-blue-ocean)

- The author introduces the "blue ocean" strategy, illustrated through Nintendo's triumph with the Wii console. A blue ocean strategy refers to creating new market space that makes competition irrelevant.
- The author suggests Apple’s next big opportunity or "blue ocean" could be reintroducing removable, user-accessible batteries in its gadgets, owing to technological advancements and evolving consumer needs.
- The proposed idea presents potential benefits like enhanced battery life and decreased electronic waste, making Apple, a consumer-electronics design leader, capable of surmounting any foreseeable challenges tied to this initiative.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38062297)

- The conversation highlights limitations and drawbacks of Apple devices, including non-upgradable RAM and soldered storage, and the lack of features like MST support and removable batteries.
- Users are discussing the reliability and lifespan of LED bulbs and batteries, the pros and cons of wireless charging, and the potential of Apple developing a super thin phone with reduced battery life.
- The discussion also revolves around Apple's design choices, the concept of user-replaceable batteries, and the influence of sustainability concerns on the device industry.

## [Web FM synthesizer made with HTML5](https://www.taktech.org/takm/WebFMSynth/)

- The text discusses a web FM synthesizer constructed using HTML5, showcasing advancements and possibilities in web-based music technology.
- It also references other related tools and resources, highlighting the breadth of support and availability in the field.
- The text touches upon the DXi FM synthesizer created for iPhone/iPad between 2010-2014 by Takashi Mizuhiki and creative studio CUE, revealing a historical precedent in mobile music technology.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38064856)

- A web-based FM synthesizer, created using HTML5, has been introduced and shared on Hacker News, receiving predominantly positive feedback.
- Some users have experienced click artifacts in their browsers while using the synthesizer, indicating potential compatibility issues.
- There's ongoing discussion about Haskell and SQL programming languages' formatting style, and many users are sharing projects and resources linked to browser-based audio synthesis, demonstrating community participation.

## [DIY IP-KVM Based on Raspberry Pi](https://github.com/pikvm/pikvm)

- PiKVM is an open-source, cost-effective DIY IP-KVM system that utilizes Raspberry Pi for remotely managing servers or workstations. It assists in troubleshooting, BIOS configuration, and OS reinstallation.
- The project provides various versions of the device, with guidance and assistance made accessible through their website and Discord community.
- PiKVM has specific requisites for certain Raspberry Pi models and extra components needed for particular configurations. The initiative accepts donations and provides customization for commercial usage.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38062923)

- The central topic is the development of an affordable, simplified version of a remote access device known as Pi-KVM.
- User experiences, solution suggestions, and alternatives are discussed in the thread, along with responses from a founder of a similar project on hardware selling challenges.
- The discussion also features DIY options for constructing or purchasing hardware and outlines functionalities offered by DASH for out-of-band management.

## [Carl Sagan's Rules for Bullshit-Busting and Critical Thinking](https://www.themarginalian.org/2014/01/03/baloney-detection-kit-carl-sagan/)

- The author of The Marginalian, a free and ad-free website, is seeking reader support to maintain the website.
- The author discusses Carl Sagan's book which underlines the significance of critical thinking and offers methods for distinguishing truth from falsehood.
- To navigate a world brimming with propaganda and pseudoscience, the author underscores the need for critical evaluation of claims, avoidance of logical fallacies, and usage of tools like the "baloney detection kit."

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38060912)

- The article touches on numerous subjects such as Carl Sagan's principles for critical thinking, the significance of falsifiability in science, and the obstacles of differentiating science in a post-truth era.
- It brings up discussions on climate change models, the existence of God and religious beliefs, decision theory, statistical hypothesis testing, and the necessity of critical thinking in journalism.
- Ultimately, the article underscores the importance of rational thinking, considerate discussion, and information rooted in solid evidence in society.

## [Raspberry Pi 5 has no hardware video encoding and only HEVC decoding](https://www.raspberrypi.com/news/introducing-raspberry-pi-5/#comment-1594055)

- The Raspberry Pi Foundation is preparing to launch the Raspberry Pi 5, which includes an in-house design and improved features such as a 2.4GHz quad-core 64-bit Arm Cortex-A76 CPU, VideoCore VII GPU, and dual 4Kp60 HDMI display output.
- There are pre-orders available for this new model, with a price of $60 for the 4GB variant and $80 for the 8GB version.
- The announcement has prompted mixed reactions from users; some are excited regarding the new features and potential projects, while others raise concerns about the product's availability and cost differences. The Raspberry Pi team is addressing these issues through active communication.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38068801)

- The Raspberry Pi 5 is criticized for its absence of hardware video encoding, causing it to be less attractive when compared to alternatives like Banana Pi and Orange Pi 5.
- User dissatisfaction stems from the Raspberry Pi Foundation's focus on developing new models instead of enhancing affordability and availability of the existing ones, and its reliance on Broadcom with a call to consider Qualcomm instead.
- The lack of modern instructions and 64-bit support on the Pi Zero 2 W adds to the drawbacks, affecting the Raspberry Pi 5's market appeal.

## [How deep is the brain? The shallow brain hypothesis](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41583-023-00756-z)

- The articles touch upon a wide array of brain function-related topics such as cortical network organization, neural processing in diverse brain regions, the significance of certain brain parts in cognition and perception, the adaptability of neural circuits, and the role of neurotransmitters in brain activity and behaviour.
- The conventional viewpoint of hierarchical processing in the brain is being questioned by the articles, underscoring the importance of subcortical regions and thalamo-cortical loops in neural processing.
- The utilization of statistical methods and computational models to comprehend brain function is also discussed in the articles.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38064287)

- The article and subsequent discussions focus on the relationship between artificial neural networks and the complexity of the human brain.
- There is an ongoing debate regarding the value of studying the human brain to enhance the development and understanding of neural network technology.
- The discussion also underscores the differences in architecture between brains and computers, the constraints of current neuroscience research, and the application of metaphors and analogies in neuroscience.

## [Private equity is devouring the U.S. economy](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2023/10/private-equity-publicly-traded-companies/675788/)

- The rapidly expanding private-equity industry, now valued at $12 trillion, is sparking concerns about transparency, accountability, and potential systemic risks, due to an increase in taking publicly traded companies private.
- The practice of taking companies private by these firms exempts the companies from mandatory public disclosures, leading to less scrutiny and potential for abuse such as workforce layoffs, regulatory evasions, and company bankruptcies, while ensuring high payouts for the firms’ partners.
- While government regulations have been proposed to demand more information from private-equity funds, additional actions are needed to address the intrinsic issues plaguing the industry, to prevent potential financial crises triggered by unmanageable debt and defaults.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38069197)

- The rise of private equity firms in the US and their small business acquisitions are leading to wealth concentration, transforming homeowners into renters, aggravating income inequality, and affecting retirement plans.
- The dialogue illuminates the need to diversify retirement savings beyond 401(k) plans and critiques pension plans, addressing the challenges posed by retirement systems.
- The consolidation of industries, such as veterinary practices, by private equity firms presents challenges for independent businesses, with potential adverse outcomes including cost-cutting, misinformation, higher prices, and compromised wellbeing.

## [How many billions of transistors in an iPhone processor?](https://lemire.me/blog/2023/10/18/how-many-billions-of-transistors-in-your-iphone-processor/)

- The article examines the trend of rising transistor count in Apple's iPhone processors over the years, emphasizing its growth rate and doubling time.
- It points out that despite the increasing complexity of the chips, the price of iPhones has relatively remained the same.
- The piece ends with a commentary on quantum computing, suggesting that it might not meet the lofty expectations set by marketers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38061096)

- The discussion encompasses a wide range of topics including the intricacy of computer chips, the ongoing debate between prioritizing moon bases and Mars missions, and the crucial role of resource distribution in space exploration.
- It also explores the influence of technology on general happiness and compares the capabilities of various iPhone models.
- Additionally, the concept of immortality and the critical function of transistors in chip design are being highlighted.

## [Alan Wake 2 is an unexpected visual marvel even on older GPUs](https://www.xfire.com/alan-wake-2-performing-well-low-end-pcs/)

- The article documents the successful performance of Alan Wake 2 on PC, highlighting its adaptability to different hardware configurations including low-end GPUs.
- Despite initial fears about high system requirements, the game has garnered positive reviews and is commended for its remarkable visual appeal and performance on both high and low-end systems.
- It also acknowledges minor bugs in the game and anticipates upcoming updates to rectify them.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38063112)

- The discourse encompasses a range of gaming aspects such as the operation of "Alan Wake 2" on varied GPUs and the significance of resolution in gaming.
- It illustrates the obstacles of operating up-to-date games on outdated hardware and the fixation on benchmarks.
- The brief provides reviews of "Starfield", comments on "Alan Wake 2"'s use of raytracing, and various viewpoints on game enhancements and updates.

## [The costs of microservices (2020)](https://robertovitillo.com/costs-of-microservices/)

- The article explores the benefits of a microservices architecture, including improved pace of development, reduced communication bottlenecks, scalability, and the ability to experiment with different technologies.
- It highlights the drawbacks of such architecture, including increased complexity, the need for management of resource provisioning, articulating communication challenges, and the necessity for automation.
- It emphasizes on the crucial role of continuous integration, testing, and monitoring in such environments, while also underlining the operational and debugging challenges. The author suggests starting with a monolithic approach and shifting to microservices when required and with adequate experience and a well-established platform.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38069915)

- The conversation focuses on the trade-offs of using microservices in comparison to a monolithic architecture, with factors including technical tools like Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD), potential database difficulties, and the need for proper planning.
- It is discussed that while microservices offer benefits like increased control for individual teams and quicker software development velocity, they may also present challenges that require substantial understanding of the existing system’s dependencies.
- The discussion emphasizes that the decision to adopt a microservices architecture should be made after thorough evaluation and under strong leadership to effectively manage the complexity involved.

## [Kubernetes releases ingress2gateway tool for upcoming GA of Gateway API](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2023/10/25/introducing-ingress2gateway/)

- The Kubernetes blog introduced "ingress2gateway," a tool that aids the transition from Ingress to the more functional and flexible Gateway API for managing external service access in Kubernetes clusters.
- The blog dispersed the advantages of Gateway API over Ingress - its role-oriented strategy, portability, expressiveness, and expansibility.
- It also provided a tutorial on installing and utilizing ingress2gateway for migrating. The blog concluded by acknowledging the continuous development of Gateway API and the community backing it.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38062269)

- Kubernetes has unveiled the ingress2gateway tool as part of the preparations for the General Availability (GA) of the Gateway API, aimed at making the usage of the API easier for DevOps and SRE professionals.
- The tool, developed by Kong - a known provider of Ingress, supports both Ingress and Gateway API providing a seamless transition between the two.
- The move is due to limitations encountered with Ingress API in handling advanced features such as query string routing and weighted load balancing, believed to be addressed by the Gateway API.

## [Migrating our backend from Vercel to Fly.io](https://www.openstatus.dev/blog/migration-backend-from-vercel-to-fly)

- The article recounts the migration of the backend of OpenStatus from Vercel to Fly.io, motivated by the need for a more lightweight server and concerns over Vercel's pricing.
- The transition faced challenges, such as optimizing a Docker image in a monorepo, dealing with deployment timeouts on Fly.io, and troubleshooting a bug with the Bun runtime.
- Despite these hurdles, the migration to Fly.io was successful, and the authors maintain their appreciation for Vercel's product.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38062649)

- The discussion revolves around users' experiences and opinions on migrating their backend from Vercel to Fly.io, highlighting issues with Vercel's unreliable deployments, functionality, and pricing.
- The impact of Vercel on React, cost-effectiveness of edge and lambda functions, and stability of the Fly.io platform are important subtopics within the discourse.
- The debate also includes mention of alternative platforms like DigitalOcean, Render, and Hetzner, and discusses the trade-off between short-term gains and long-term maintenance costs in deploying infrastructure.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="YouTube's Anti-Adblock and uBlock Origin" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=YouTube's%20Anti-Adblock%20and%20uBlock%20Origin&subheading=Monday%2C%20October%2030%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
