---
slug: '/2023/11/22'
---

# 2023-11-22

## [Introducing Stable Video Diffusion: A Powerful Generative AI Model for Video Applications](https://stability.ai/news/stable-video-diffusion-open-ai-video-model)

- Stability AI has released Stable Video Diffusion, a generative AI video model, which is adaptable to different video applications and performs well compared to other models.
- The model is currently available for research purposes only and feedback from users is encouraged for further improvements.
- Stable Video Diffusion is part of a collection of open-source models from Stability AI in different modalities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38368287)

- The discussion explores various aspects of AI-generated content, including image and video generation, 3D scene creation, copyright issues, and the impact on the film industry.
- Participants express enthusiasm about the advancements in AI and the opportunities it presents, but also recognize the existing limitations and challenges.
- The conversation covers different techniques, models, and technologies used in AI generation, as well as ethical concerns and the need for further advancements in the field.

## [Why the Moon Changes Size When Sniped in GTA: Exploring an Artistic Disagreement in Game Development](https://insiderockstarnorth.blogspot.com/2023/11/why-does-moon-change-size-when-you.html)

- The size of the moon in a video game was altered due to a disagreement among artists, but a final decision was never made.
- The author proposes implementing three changeable moon sizes in the game, which toggle as the player shoots at it.
- It is suggested that the Easter egg of the changing moon size may have been expanded upon in a later game.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38371361)

- The post covers various game development anecdotes and easter eggs, such as the changing size of the moon when sniped in GTA.
- There is disappointment expressed regarding the lack of support for all Pokemon in newer Pokemon games.
- The comment section discusses bug-related topics like object size changes in a Sega game depending on console settings, aspect ratio issues in PlayStation 2 games, and the use of cheat codes for testing and gameplay efficiency.

## [Sam Altman to Return as OpenAI CEO in New Agreement](https://twitter.com/openai/status/1727206187077370115)

- OpenAI has reached an agreement in principle for Sam Altman to resume his role as CEO.
- The company is also forming a new initial board, which will include Bret Taylor as Chair, Larry Summers, and Adam D'Angelo.
- While the specifics are still being finalized, this announcement highlights significant leadership changes at OpenAI.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38375239)

- Sam Altman has been appointed as the CEO of OpenAI, generating discussions about his role and influence in the organization.
- There are concerns about the potential impact of Microsoft's involvement with OpenAI and its potential effect on critical thinking and independence.
- Employee protests and board reshuffling have also sparked conversations about power dynamics and the need for independent oversight within OpenAI.

## [Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao Resigns and Admits Guilt in Money Laundering Case](https://www.wsj.com/finance/currencies/binance-ceo-changpeng-zhao-step-down-plead-guilty-01f72a40)

- The CEO of Binance, the largest cryptocurrency exchange globally, has resigned and pleaded guilty to violating US anti-money laundering laws.
- Binance is accused of facilitating transactions with sanctioned groups and encouraging users to evade regulations by hiding their location.
- The company will face a hefty fine of $4.3 billion but may be allowed to continue its operations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38366729)

- The discussion touches on several topics in the cryptocurrency realm, such as Binance CEO's admission of guilt regarding money laundering restrictions and concerns about Tether's credibility and possible fraud.
- The potential effects of a Bitcoin ETF and strategies for safeguarding digital assets are also discussed.
- The collapse of a cryptocurrency exchange and the search for its replacement CEO are also mentioned, along with the comparison of cryptocurrencies to traditional investments like stocks and gold. This highlights the intricate and controversial nature of the cryptocurrency industry.

## [Google Concedes Spotify's Play Store Fees Waiver through Secret Deal](https://techcrunch.com/2023/11/20/google-admits-spotify-pays-no-play-store-fees-because-of-a-secret-deal/)

- In the ongoing trial between Epic and Google, a Google executive disclosed that Spotify has a special arrangement with Google that allows it to avoid paying Play Store fees.
- Under this deal, Spotify processes its own payments with no fees, and when Google processes the payments, it charges only a 4% fee.
- Google has also pursued similar agreements with other companies like Netflix and Match Group, offering them discounted fees for subscriptions on the Play Store. This trial has provided insight into the internal workings and negotiations surrounding the Google Play Store.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38365002)

- Google has acknowledged that Spotify is exempt from paying fees to the Play Store, thanks to a confidential agreement between the two companies.
- This arrangement sets Spotify apart from other app developers who are required to pay a commission on sales made through the Play Store.
- The details of the deal remain undisclosed, leaving many curious about the terms and implications of this special arrangement.

## [FBI Director Admits Rare Use of Probable Cause in NSA Collections](https://www.techdirt.com/2023/11/21/fbi-director-admits-agency-rarely-has-probable-cause-when-it-performs-backdoor-searches-of-nsa-collections/)

- An anonymous comment ridicules the FBI's assertion of always having probable cause, stating that finding a valid excuse is challenging and time-consuming.
- The comment suggests that it is improbable for the FBI to discover a legitimate excuse that would meet the criteria for probable cause.
- The sarcastic comment hints at skepticism regarding the FBI's claim and raises doubts about their ability to consistently meet the standard of probable cause.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38368760)

- The discussion touches on a range of topics, such as the FBI and NSA's compliance with legal standards and the use of controversial methods like torture for national security.
- It also addresses the interpretation of the Second Amendment and gun control laws, the significance of trust in government agencies, the necessity of independent oversight, and the impact of social order and race on law enforcement.
- The conversations highlight varying perspectives on these issues and their potential implications for civil liberties and justice.

## [New Visual Language for Kids to Learn Coding with Pickcode](https://pickcode.io)

- Pickcode is a new language and editor specifically designed for middle to early high school kids to learn coding.
- It provides a structured code editing experience where choices are selected from menus, aiming to bridge the gap between block coding and regular coding.
- Pickcode offers tutorials for making chatbots, animated drawings, and 2D games, with a full intro course and a Python course available. However, it may not be suitable for professional programmers. Access to free lessons is available with an account, and additional lessons are behind a paywall. The creator welcomes feedback from users, especially those with kids aged 10-14.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38365638)

- The conversation includes discussions on teaching coding to children, focusing on visual programming languages like Scratch and Pickcode.
- Participants analyze the advantages and constraints of different programming paradigms, such as imperative programming and functional programming.
- Teachers' challenges in teaching coding and students' difficulties in grasping programming concepts are addressed, along with suggestions for enhancing coding editors and incorporating programming concepts into education.

## [Recognizing the Warning Signs: Marianne Jennings on Ethical Collapse](https://www.scu.edu/ethics/focus-areas/business-ethics/resources/seven-signs-of-ethical-collapse/)

- Marianne Jennings, author of The Seven Signs of Ethical Collapse, has visited the Markkula Center to share insights on corporate scandals and how they could have been prevented by identifying warning signs.
- She highlights common traits in companies that have experienced ethical issues, including the pressure to meet financial targets, fear and lack of transparency, ineffective boards of directors, conflicts of interest, and the belief that positive actions can compensate for unethical behavior.
- Jennings emphasizes the crucial role of leadership and setting an ethical example in establishing a robust ethical culture in organizations.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38366295)

- The article and discussions focus on ethics in organizations and society, covering topics such as signs of ethical collapse, decision-making trade-offs, conflicts of interest, and corporate social responsibility.
- CEO influence, evaluation frameworks, incentives, accountability, and the relationship between wealth and ethical behavior are also discussed.
- The discussions present different perspectives on ethics, the role of regulation, the definition of ethics, and the repercussions of unethical behavior.

## [ChatGPT with voice now available to all free users](https://twitter.com/OpenAI/status/1727065166188274145)

- All free users of the mobile app now have access to ChatGPT with voice.
- Users can engage in voice-based conversations by tapping the headphones icon.
- This update expands the functionality of the mobile app and provides a new way for users to interact with ChatGPT.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38370252)

- OpenAI has launched ChatGPT with a voice feature that is available to free users, enabling them to engage in conversations, learn, and be entertained.
- Users have expressed a mix of excitement and concerns regarding the system's accuracy, trustworthiness, potential biases, and the possibility of SEO manipulation.
- Discussions also center around the capabilities of AI language models and voice assistants, with privacy, functionality, and accent preferences being major concerns.
- While some users are impressed with ChatGPT's performance, others have raised issues with speech recognition and voice quality.
- There is a general interest in the advancements of voice AI technology and the potential applications it holds.

## [Candela P-12: Revolutionizing Water Transportation with Electric Hydrofoiling](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XSkjdfaHxhw)

- The P12 is a public transport system that offers eco-friendly transportation on water.
- It utilizes foils to decrease wake and friction, thereby increasing energy efficiency and range.
- The technology aims to revolutionize water transportation and reduce pollution from ferries.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38364489)

- The discussion centers around the feasibility and limitations of using hydrofoil technology in boats, considering factors like obstacle handling, performance in rough seas, power source, and environmental impact.
- Various opinions are expressed regarding the practicality and potential barriers to adopting hydrofoil technology, with the Candela P-12 electric hydrofoil passenger vessel highlighted as an example.
- The conversation explores the use of hydrofoils in public transportation, especially in Scandinavian cities, and the potential for non-polluting options. It also discusses the advantages and disadvantages of hydrofoil boats compared to traditional vessels and the impact of billionaire investments in related projects. Overall, the discussion emphasizes the complex and promising nature of hydrofoil technology in maritime transportation.

## [Orca 2: Enhancing Small Language Models' Reasoning Abilities](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.11045)

- The researchers have introduced Orca 2, a model designed to improve the reasoning abilities of smaller language models by teaching them different strategies for different tasks.
- Orca 2 has shown superior performance compared to models of similar size and has achieved similar or even better results than models 5-10 times larger on complex tasks that require advanced reasoning skills in zero-shot settings.
- The researchers have made Orca 2 open-source, inviting further investigation and evaluation of smaller language models.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38361735)

- The article explores the Orca 2 language model's capacity for reasoning and contextual understanding, comparing it to other models such as Llama-2 13B and Mistral-7b.
- Limitations of current AI models in terms of reasoning abilities and reliance on predetermined datasets are discussed.
- The conversation delves into the potential of language models like ChatGPT for future AGI, as well as the use of fine-tuning, potential bias in training data, and the performance of different models on safety benchmarks. Additionally, there's a mention of consumer hardware's ability to handle various model sizes.

## [Altman's Ouster Reveals Divisions & Tensions Within OpenAI's Board](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/21/technology/openai-altman-board-fight.html)

- Former CEO of OpenAI, Sam Altman, was forced out of the company following disagreements and tension with the board of directors.
- The conflict stemmed from a research paper co-written by a board member, which Altman believed was critical of OpenAI, as well as disagreements over growth and AI safety.
- Altman's return as CEO, along with the removal of certain board members, has resolved some of the tensions, highlighting the challenges of aligning business interests with ethical concerns in the field of AI.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38372451)

- Sam Altman, former CEO of OpenAI, was removed from the company amid a power struggle over control of the board.
- Concerns were raised about Altman's focus on commercial goals potentially compromising OpenAI's non-profit objectives.
- Speculations include disagreements over AI safety, ethics, conflicts of interest, and uncertainty regarding the future of OpenAI.
- The discussion also covers concerns about AI safety, competitiveness, board member criticism, restrictions on publishing research papers, and the implications for the company's mission.
- Additional topics include skepticism about OpenAI's non-profit status, AGI development concerns, and potential security risks associated with AI.

## [Improving Suburban Design to Benefit Kids](https://www.cnu.org/publicsquare/2023/11/13/children-left-behind-suburbia-need-better-community-design)

- Children in American suburbs face challenges such as limited transportation options, lack of kid-friendly destinations, and safety concerns.
- Walkable, mixed-use planning is essential for encouraging children to go outside, socialize, and build relationships.
- Examples from England show how closely situated structures, green spaces, and corner shops can create a more walkable environment.
- American suburbs should consider adopting mixed-use zoning, improving pedestrian-friendly infrastructure, and enhancing public transportation to enhance the lives of young people.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38370203)

- This article and its comments emphasize the importance of improving community design to encourage children to participate in outdoor activities.
- They discuss how technology, parental concerns, and suburban design have limited children's outdoor play.
- The conversation also examines the prevalence of screen time and the challenges of managing it, as well as the decline of traditional activities in favor of digital media.

## [YouTube Slows Down Video Loading for Non-Chrome Browsers to Penalize Ad-blocker Users](https://www.androidcentral.com/apps-software/youtube-loads-slower-on-firefox)

- YouTube is allegedly deliberately slowing down video loading times on browsers like Firefox and Microsoft Edge as a form of punishment against users who employ ad-blockers.
- Speculation suggests that this is accomplished through a code snippet that introduces a five-second delay before video playback, potentially ensuring that ad-blocker users still view ads prior to watching content.
- Multiple browsers are believed to be affected by this slowdown, even if ad-blocker extensions are disabled. YouTube has acknowledged that these delays are part of their anti-ad-blocker efforts and encourages users to either disable their ad-blockers or opt for YouTube Premium to access an ad-free experience.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38364824)

- The summary covers various topics related to YouTube and ad-blockers, including alleged efforts by YouTube to promote its Chrome browser and penalize users of non-Chrome browsers.
- Users express frustration with the number and duration of ads on YouTube and propose alternative methods for accessing and downloading videos.
- The summary also includes discussions about the ethics of using ad-blockers, the pricing and features of YouTube Premium, and the limitations and problems with different video-sharing platforms.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Introducing Stable Video Diffusion: A Powerful Generative AI Model for Video Applications" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Introducing%20Stable%20Video%20Diffusion%3A%20A%20Powerful%20Generative%20AI%20Model%20for%20Video%20Applications&subheading=Wednesday%2C%20November%2022%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
