---
slug: '/2023/11/09'
---

# 2023-11-09

## [Omegle Founder Expresses Disappointment as Platform Shuts Down Due to Malicious Attacks](https://www.omegle.com/)

- Omegle, an online chat platform, is being shut down due to attacks by malicious users.
- Founder Leif K-Brooks expresses disappointment and highlights the positive aspects of the platform.
- K-Brooks emphasizes the importance of not targeting innocent users and supporting organizations like the Electronic Frontier Foundation to protect online rights.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38199355)

- Omegle, an online chat platform, is being shut down due to attacks by malicious users, prompting disappointment from founder Leif K-Brooks.
- K-Brooks emphasizes the positive aspects of Omegle, such as the ability to meet new people and the safety it provided for some users.
- He urges against targeting innocent users or potential victims of crime when imposing restrictions and calls for support of organizations like the Electronic Frontier Foundation to protect online rights.

## [The Realities and Challenges of a Software Engineer: Soft Skills, Bugs, Constant Learning, and Work-Life Balance](https://www.mensurdurakovic.com/hard-to-swallow-truths-they-wont-tell-you-about-software-engineer-job/)

- Soft skills are important for software engineers, alongside technical skills.
- Bugs are common in software development and must be dealt with regularly.
- Software engineers need to continuously learn and stay updated with new technologies.
- Disconnecting from work can be challenging for software engineers.
- Software engineering offers opportunities for innovation and remote work options.
- There is flexibility in terms of location and dress code in this profession.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38188689)

- Soft skills, such as communication and teamwork, are crucial for software engineers in addition to technical skills.
- Dealing with bugs is a common challenge for software engineers.
- Continuous learning is necessary in the ever-evolving field of software engineering.
- Disconnecting from work can be difficult for software engineers.
- Software engineering offers opportunities for innovation.
- Remote work options and flexibility in location and dress code are benefits of the job.

## [How Disputes and Population Loss Shape Institutional Change in Wikipedia](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/american-political-science-review/article/rule-ambiguity-institutional-clashes-and-population-loss-how-wikipedia-became-the-last-good-place-on-the-internet/FC3F7B9CBF951DD30C2648E7DEFB65EE)

- The article analyzes institutional change in Wikipedia, focusing on population loss and rule interpretation disputes.
- Qualitative analysis and process tracing are used to provide evidence of endogenous institutional change.
- Biases favoring stability and consensus decision-making within Wikipedia are highlighted, along with the role of actors in shaping rules.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38189878)

- This article explores how institutional change occurs within Wikipedia, focusing on population loss and disputes over rule interpretations.
- The study uses qualitative analysis and process tracing to provide evidence for endogenous institutional change in Wikipedia.
- The paper highlights biases favoring stability and consensus decision-making in Wikipedia and emphasizes the role of actors in shaping rules.

## [Major Outage Resolved for ChatGPT and API Services](https://status.openai.com/incidents/00fpy0yxrx1q)

- OpenAI experienced a significant outage that affected both their ChatGPT and API services, causing high error rates.
- The issue was identified and resolved within a span of almost 2 hours, between 5:42AM - 7:16AM PT.
- OpenAI has implemented a fix and is currently monitoring the services to ensure continued recovery from the incident.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38190401)

- OpenAI experienced a significant outage in its ChatGPT and API services, leading to high error rates.
- The issue was identified and resolved between 5:42AM - 7:16AM PT, and normal responses were observed afterward.
- OpenAI has implemented a fix and is closely monitoring the services to ensure continued recovery.

## [Vertical Living: The Evolution of High-Rise Buildings and Urban Density in Spain](https://especiales.eldiario.es/spain-lives-in-flats/)

- The article delves into the history and evolution of high-rise buildings and population density in Spanish cities.
- It examines how urban planning trends have influenced the construction of taller buildings, especially during urbanization and rural exodus.
- The article emphasizes the surge in single-family homes and apartments in suburban areas and the current focus on creating compact and cohesive cities in urban planning.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38189840)

- The article examines the history and growth of high-rise buildings and population density in Spanish cities.
- Urban planning trends have seen an increase in taller buildings, especially during periods of urbanization and rural exodus.
- There is a growing emphasis on creating compact and cohesive cities, but the question of appropriate height and density is still debated.

## [Chamberlain Blocks Third-Party Access to Smart Garage Door Openers, Faces Backlash](https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2023/11/chamberlain-blocks-smart-garage-door-opener-from-working-with-smart-homes/)

- Chamberlain Group has blocked third-party smart home apps from accessing its myQ smart garage door openers, citing improved user experience and performance.
- Critics argue that Chamberlain's decision is driven by a desire to display ads and sell services through its own app.
- Open-source smart home platform Home Assistant is removing the myQ integration in response and advises consumers to avoid supporting companies that restrict customer access.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38188614)

- Chamberlain Group, the owner of popular garage door opener brands like LiftMaster and Chamberlain, has blocked third-party smart home apps from accessing its myQ smart garage door openers.
- Chamberlain claims this decision improves user experience and performance, but critics argue that it is driven by a desire to display ads and upsell services through its own app.
- The open-source smart home platform Home Assistant is removing the myQ integration from its system and advises consumers not to support companies that restrict customer access.

## [SciPy for Python 3.12 on Windows: Overcoming Challenges and Achieving Success](https://labs.quansight.org/blog/building-scipy-with-flang)

- Building compatible releases of packages like SciPy for Python 3.12 presents challenges, especially with Python packaging and the use of Fortran code.
- The Conda package manager and the conda-forge community play a crucial role in addressing these challenges.
- Python packaging tools like distutils and setuptools have limitations, and the use of Meson as a build tool is discussed.
- Difficulties in building and packaging Fortran-based packages for Windows are highlighted.
- The article mentions the successful custom-build of a toolchain for SciPy on Windows and expresses gratitude to contributors.
- Caution is advised when making significant changes to LLVM setup due to potential impacts on other packages.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38196412)

- Building compatible releases of packages like SciPy for Python 3.12 comes with challenges related to Python packaging and the use of Fortran code.
- Conda and the conda-forge community play a significant role in addressing these challenges.
- Python packaging tools like distutils and setuptools have limitations, and Meson is used as a build tool. Building and packaging Fortran-based packages for Windows is particularly difficult.
- A custom toolchain for SciPy on Windows was successfully built, and gratitude is expressed to the contributors.
- Significant changes to LLVM setup should be approached cautiously due to the potential impact on other packages.

## [EU Accused of "Maladministration" for Concealing List of Companies Consulted on CSAM Regulation](https://www.iccl.ie/news/ombudsman-european-commissions-concealment-of-secret-expert-list-on-csam-regulation-constitutes-maladministration/)

- The European Commission has been criticized for withholding a list of companies consulted about detecting child sexual abuse material (CSAM) without undermining encryption, leading to accusations of "maladministration" by the European Ombudsman.
- Concerns about transparency and the influence of lobbyists in drafting the CSAM regulation have been raised due to the Commission's refusal to disclose the list.
- Experts have expressed differing opinions on whether detecting CSAM in encrypted content is currently feasible, with some warning against potential mass surveillance and violations of EU communication monitoring laws.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38189790)

- The European Commission has been accused of "maladministration" for withholding a list of companies consulted about detecting child sexual abuse material (CSAM) without compromising encryption.
- Concerns have been raised about transparency and the influence of lobbyists in the drafting of the CSAM regulation.
- Experts have differing opinions on the feasibility and necessity of detecting CSAM in encrypted content, with some arguing for it as a tool to combat child exploitation. The proposed regulation has also faced criticism for potential mass surveillance and violations of EU communication monitoring laws.

## [Mapping Project Showcases Unique Interpretations of Brutalism in Quake Brutalist Jam II](https://www.slipseer.com/index.php?resources/quake-brutalist-jam-2.278/)

- A mapping project focused on Brutalism architecture has produced 30 levels created by multiple mappers.
- The project includes a gameplay mod called Copper and features maps made by both new and experienced mappers.
- The maps showcase various interpretations of Brutalism, from concrete hellscapes to liminal voids.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38191319)

- A mapping project focused on Brutalism architecture has produced 30 levels created by different mappers, including both newcomers and experienced individuals.
- The project includes a gameplay mod called Copper and offers diverse and impressive interpretations of Brutalism, ranging from concrete hellscapes to liminal voids.
- To install the project, users need to unzip the qbj2 folder into the Quake directory and launch a sourceport of their preference.

## [Maine Voters Approve Car Right to Repair Law, Posing Challenges for Auto Manufacturers](https://www.404media.co/voters-overwhelmingly-pass-car-right-to-repair-law-in-maine/)

- Maine voters have approved a ballot measure that gives consumers the right to repair cars, despite opposition from auto manufacturers.
- The measure mandates vehicle manufacturers to standardize diagnostic systems and grant access to data for owners and independent repair facilities.
- This victory follows a similar measure passed in Massachusetts last year and strengthens the nationwide movement for right to repair protections.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38195509)

- Maine voters have approved a ballot measure that gives car owners and independent repair facilities the right to access data and standardized diagnostic systems from vehicle manufacturers.
- This is a setback for auto manufacturers who have opposed such legislation.
- The law is seen as necessary because manufacturers are increasingly using wireless access to car diagnostics, which restricts access for independent repairs.

## [Amazon's Fire TVs now packed with more ads, potentially compromising user experience](https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2023/11/after-luring-customers-with-low-prices-amazon-stuffs-fire-tvs-with-ads/)

- Amazon is expanding the number of ads on its Fire TVs, offering advertisers access to millions of monthly viewers.
- The ads will be linked to the AI assistant Alexa, search queries, and content genres.
- However, some users are concerned that the increased ads could negatively impact the user experience and prioritize advertisers over Fire TV customers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38194818)

- Amazon is adding more ads to its Fire TVs, expanding the reach for advertisers to millions of monthly viewers.
- The ads will be integrated with generative AI Alexa, search queries, and content genres.
- However, the increased ad presence could potentially disrupt the user experience and prioritize advertisers over Fire TV customers.

## [Ferrocene: The First Qualified Rust Compiler for Safety-Critical Environments](https://ferrous-systems.com/blog/officially-qualified-ferrocene/)

- Ferrocene is a Rust compiler toolchain that has been qualified according to ISO 26262 and IEC 61508 standards.
- It is the first qualified Rust compiler and is suitable for use in safety- and mission-critical environments.
- Ferrocene has obtained certification for use in automotive and industrial sectors and is available for purchase with different licensing options.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38188734)

- Ferrocene is a Rust compiler toolchain that has obtained ISO 26262 and IEC 61508 certifications, making it suitable for safety- and mission-critical applications.
- It is the first Rust compiler to receive such qualifications and has been certified for use in the automotive and industrial sectors.
- Ferrocene is now available for purchase with different licensing options, providing developers and organizations with a reliable and certified toolchain for their projects.

## [Texas Oil and Gas Production Releases Double the Amount of Methane Compared to New Mexico, Prompting Calls for Stricter Regulations](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2023/nov/08/texas-methane-oil-and-gas-study-climate)

- Satellite data reveals that oil and gas production in Texas emits double the amount of methane compared to New Mexico due to stricter regulations in the latter state.
- Texas has been releasing higher rates of methane per unit of production since 2019, potentially making it a "super-emitter" site that environmentalists are calling for tougher regulations on.
- The US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is finalizing new federal rules to reduce methane emissions, expected to be announced later this month. Governments are urged to take swift action to cut methane emissions, as it would have a significant impact on slowing down climate change.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38194359)

- Satellite data reveals that oil and gas production in Texas emits double the amount of methane compared to New Mexico, which has stricter regulations.
- Texas has higher rates of methane emissions per unit of production since 2019, indicating a significant problem with methane leaks.
- Environmentalists are calling for tougher regulations on "super-emitter" sites in Texas to address the surge in methane emissions, which pose a major threat to combating climate change.

## [NYPD Ordered to Allow Filming in Precinct Stations After Lawsuit](https://hellgatenyc.com/you-can-now-film-in-nypd-precincts-thanks-to-this-youtuber)

- YouTuber SeanPaul Reyes has won a temporary injunction allowing him to film in NYPD precincts after suing the department for arresting him twice for filming in public areas of precinct stations.
- The lawsuit argued that the NYPD's policy violated the First Amendment and state and city laws protecting the right to record the police.
- The judge ruled in favor of Reyes, issuing a temporary injunction and ordering the NYPD to remove signs prohibiting filming in police stations. The NYPD plans to appeal the order and is requesting a stay of the injunction.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38191972)

- YouTuber SeanPaul Reyes, who was arrested twice by the NYPD for filming in public areas of precinct stations, has won a temporary injunction allowing him to film in NYPD precincts.
- Reyes celebrated the victory by livestreaming from the 75th Precinct with a copy of the court order.
- The lawsuit argued that the NYPD's policy violated the First Amendment and state and city laws guaranteeing the right to record the police. The judge ruled in favor of Reyes, issuing a temporary injunction and directing the NYPD to remove signs forbidding filming in police stations.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Omegle Founder Expresses Disappointment as Platform Shuts Down Due to Malicious Attacks" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Omegle%20Founder%20Expresses%20Disappointment%20as%20Platform%20Shuts%20Down%20Due%20to%20Malicious%20Attacks&subheading=Thursday%2C%20November%209%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
