---
slug: '/2023/11/24'
---

# 2023-11-24

## [Apple Removes Developer Account, Sparks Legal Battle and Losses](https://seraleev.notion.site/Our-developer-account-was-removed-by-Apple-and-they-haven-t-paid-out-108-878-b61192711c74487480373badc70d42c0)

- Sarafan Mobile Limited, a developer of photo and video applications, had their Apple developer account closed, leading to financial losses and hardships for the company and its employees.
- The closure resulted in unpaid revenue of $108,878 that Sarafan Mobile Limited is seeking to recover.
- Apple cited a violation of their developer program license agreement as the reason for closing the account but did not provide specific details or steps for resolution. Sarafan Mobile Limited's appeal was rejected.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38394364)

- This collection covers various discussions on Apple's control over its app ecosystem, including the removal of developer accounts and speculation about fake reviews.
- Topics include the need for better moderation and transparency, the debate over allowing side loading and third-party app stores, concerns about oppressive technology and surveillance, and the potential risks of open OS platforms.
- The discussions also cover comparisons between app stores and their policies, challenges faced by developers in the App Store, the issue of fake reviews and the value of paid services, concerns about account closures and lack of transparency, and the risks and principles involved in platform control.

## [YouTube Faces Backlash as Users Find New Ways to Block Ads](https://old.reddit.com/r/webdev/comments/181vbmk/youtube_is_now_blocking_ad_blockers_so_i_just/)

- Reddit thread explores methods and tools to bypass and block ads on platforms like YouTube and Twitch, fueled by users' frustration with intrusive ads.
- Users discuss ways to enhance browsing experience and debate the impact of ad-blockers on advertisers and content creators.
- Excitement and positive feedback arise as users learn about a new browser extension that enables ad-free viewing of YouTube videos.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38397817)

- The discussion on YouTube encompasses various topics including ad-blocking, content creators, alternative platforms, and the ethics of ad blocking.
- Users engage in conversations about strategies to bypass ads, the impact of ads on the viewing experience, and the effectiveness of advertising on YouTube.
- Other points of discussion include data collection, competition, censorship, the potential future of AI in advertising, and the challenges of implementing personalized ads on YouTube.

## [US Govt Pays AT&T for Warrantless Phone Record Searches, Raises Concerns](https://www.theregister.com/2023/11/22/wyden_hemisphere_letter/)

- Senator Ron Wyden has expressed concerns about the Hemisphere Project, a secret surveillance program that allows US law enforcement agencies to search trillions of phone records without warrants.
- The program involves AT&T providing access to phone records dating back to 1987 and four billion call records added daily, with the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy paying for this access.
- Wyden has called for more information about the program and has questioned its legality, as it is designated as "Law Enforcement Sensitive" and not subject to a federal Privacy Impact Assessment.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38393237)

- The discussion raises concerns about government surveillance and privacy violations, as well as the lack of accountability for law enforcement.
- It explores issues such as accessing phone records without a warrant, the use of metadata, and the potential abuse of power.
- The conversation also addresses topics like the Fourth Amendment, encrypted messaging apps, and the balance between individual privacy and government surveillance.

## [Polio Eradication: Preventing Return & Potential Benefits](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-023-03602-5)

- The global campaign to eradicate polio is almost successful, but there are concerns about the virus lingering in labs and individuals after eradication.
- Polio eradication efforts have been challenging due to the ability of the virus to infect people silently and the risk of the virus reemerging during the withdrawal of oral polio vaccine (OPV).
- To prevent the reemergence of polio post-eradication, high population immunity, strong surveillance, better lab biosecurity, and development of alternative vaccines without the live virus are crucial.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38392277)

- The article discusses the progress and challenges in eradicating polio, including CIA interference and cultural barriers in Pakistan.
- The conversation covers various topics such as the decision to patent the polio vaccine, finding a cure for paralysis caused by polio, and the importance of developed countries helping with sanitation and water infrastructure.
- There is debate about government spending, population growth, vaccine efficacy, conspiracy theories, and the ethics of killing Osama bin Laden impacting vaccine rollout in Pakistan.

## [Linux community contributes over 38% of bug reports in game development (2021)](https://old.reddit.com/r/gamedev/comments/qeqn3b/despite_having_just_58_sales_over_38_of_bug/)

- The post discusses the benefits of bug reporting from the Linux community for game development on Linux.
- It explores the challenges and advantages of using Linux for game development, emphasizing the importance of testing on different hardware and architectures.
- The potential benefits of open-source code and bug reports, as well as the positive experiences and support from the Linux gaming community, are also highlighted.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38392931)

- Linux users contribute a higher percentage of bug reports compared to Windows users due to their technical understanding and access to bug trackers.
- The technical proficiency of different generations and the convenience and control of technology are also discussed.
- Challenges in game development for Linux, the role of user feedback, and the importance of bug reports for software quality improvement are mentioned.

## [Understanding Git Branches: Intuition vs Reality](https://jvns.ca/blog/2023/11/23/branches-intuition-reality/)

- The intuitive understanding of git branches doesn't fully align with how git actually works, but it closely relates to merges, rebases, and GitHub pull requests.
- Git lacks a hierarchical structure between branches, which poses limitations and challenges.
- The user interface of git, including the default branch in GitHub, has its peculiarities that users should be aware of.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38393238)

- This summary provides a comprehensive overview of Git, focusing on its branches, commits, merging, and advantages as a version control system.
- Users discuss the challenges of using Git and offer tips and strategies for using Git commands effectively.
- There is debate about Git's representation of history and file moves, and the need for clearer documentation and user-friendly interfaces.

## [Improving Bluetooth Audio Quality on Headphones: Enhanced SBC Codec and Software Modifications (2019)](https://habr.com/en/articles/456476/)

- The article discusses how to improve audio quality on headphones without AAC, aptX, or LDAC codecs using Bluetooth technology.
- The low quality of the SBC codec used in Bluetooth is due to artificial limitations in current Bluetooth stacks and headphone configurations, but these limitations can be bypassed with software modifications.
- The author provides patches for Android 8.1 and 9, which add support for Dual Channel mode and improve Bluetooth audio quality. Users of certain firmwares can enhance their Bluetooth audio quality using the provided patches.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38396658)

- The Hacker News discussion explores possible modifications to the Bluetooth stack to enhance audio quality on headphones.
- Topics covered include compatibility between different codecs, low latency issues, power requirements for decoding specific codecs, and the role of capitalism in product development.
- The conversation also delves into alternative options for low-latency audio transmission, variability of Bluetooth chipsets in Android devices, and the allocation of resources based on Wi-Fi and Bluetooth usage.

## [ShellCheck: Uncovering Bugs in Your Shell Scripts](https://www.shellcheck.net/)

- ShellCheck is an open-source tool written in Haskell that helps users identify bugs in their shell scripts.
- The tool is available for installation on various platforms and can be integrated into popular code editors.
- It assists users in finding and fixing issues in shell scripts to improve code quality and prevent bugs.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38396345)

- The discussion explores scripting languages and their application in different scenarios, focusing on code quality, reproducibility, collaboration, and selecting the appropriate language for specific purposes.
- Topics include Shellcheck, issues encountered when using Gitlab CI scripts, alternatives to shell scripting like Python, pros and cons of various programming languages, script usage in Linux and embedded systems, and the capabilities of programming languages in resource-constrained devices.
- The central theme revolves around the importance of utilizing scripting languages effectively in order to enhance development processes and achieve desired outcomes.

## [Prioritizing Libraries over Services: Cost-Effective Solution for Developers](https://catern.com/services.html)

- The author recommends developers to prioritize creating libraries over services to reduce administration costs.
- Libraries allow users to run the software themselves and offer the same functionality as services, but at a lower cost.
- By shifting the responsibility to library users, developers can avoid maintenance and upgrade costs often associated with services, allowing for more functionality.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38393032)

- The article examines the advantages and obstacles of utilizing libraries versus services in software development.
- It discusses the reusability and testability of libraries, version control and updating strategies, safety and efficiency concerns, managing different versions and customer deployment scenarios, and protecting proprietary technology.
- The conversation also touches on subjects such as storage databases, abstractions, and the monetization of software.

## [The Rise and Challenges of Titanium: A Metal of Strength and Potential](https://www.construction-physics.com/p/the-story-of-titanium)

- Titanium is a highly valuable metal known for its strength, light weight, and resistance to corrosion.
- The US government has played a crucial role in supporting the titanium industry through funding and research.
- Titanium has found applications in aerospace manufacturing and medical implants due to its durability, but it remains niche and expensive compared to other metals.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38394635)

- Titanium is being discussed in terms of its qualities, uses, and advantages and disadvantages compared to other materials like magnesium and aluminum.
- Various industries, including construction, biking, cooking, and technology, are mentioned as areas where titanium is used.
- Users share personal experiences and opinions about titanium, and other metals like steel and aluminum are also mentioned.

## [Empower Yourself: Allowed Actions for 2020](https://milan.cvitkovic.net/writing/things_youre_allowed_to_do/)

- This post presents a comprehensive list of activities individuals are permitted to engage in various areas of life, including learning, decision making, interpersonal interactions, romance, support and accountability, resource management, and professional endeavors.
- It suggests hiring researchers or consultants and engaging in bartering or DIY projects as means to broaden one's knowledge and skills.
- The post also provides resources for finding experts, research, and data to support these activities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38399740)

- The article and comments discuss a wide range of topics including learning programming, seeking new experiences, optimizing time, unconventional lifestyle choices, overcoming limitations, note-taking in books, physiotherapy, hiring assistants, and the issue of ChatGPT mixing hallucinations with facts.
- The discussions present diverse perspectives, experiences, and opinions on these subjects, offering valuable insights and possible solutions.
- This post offers a unique opportunity to learn from others in the tech community and gain different perspectives on various topics.

## [Chrome's Manifest V3 threatens ad blockers, may push users to Firefox](https://www.malwarebytes.com/blog/news/2023/11/chrome-pushes-forward-with-plans-to-limit-ad-blockers-in-the-future)

- Google plans to transition from Manifest V2 to Manifest V3, the latest version of its Chrome extension specification, despite criticism for limiting ad blockers
- Manifest V3 introduces new limitations on filtering rulesets, which reduces the capabilities of ad blockers and privacy-protective tracker blockers
- The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) has criticized Manifest V3 as deceitful and threatening, while Firefox plans to adopt it for cross-browser compatibility, potentially making Firefox a better choice for users requiring full extension capabilities.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38394613)

- Google is considering limiting ad blockers in its Chrome browser, which has raised concerns among users and alternative browser developers.
- Browsers like Brave, Vivaldi, and Opera have committed to supporting the current ad-blocking feature, while discussions are ongoing about the potential introduction of new capabilities in Manifest V3.
- Users are considering switching to Firefox or other privacy-focused browsers as an alternative and are discussing the limitations of ad-blockers, Google's control over Chromium codebase, and the impact on ad-blocking quality and browser performance. Frustration with excessive ads, lack of ad-blockers on certain devices, and the importance of advocating for user interests are also voiced.

## [Optimizing Request Retries: Exponential Backoff and Jitter](https://encore.dev/blog/retries)

- This article delves into the significance of handling failed requests in software development and offers insights into various strategies for retrying requests.
- It emphasizes the influence of retries on server performance and suggests implementing exponential backoff and jitter for optimizing the retry process.
- The article provides a code example and underscores the importance of adopting safe retry behaviors, while briefly mentioning other related topics.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38392540)

- Request retries and local circuit breakers are used to address temporary server issues.
- Implementing circuit breakers requires both local and global decision-making.
- Excessive retries can cause harm and should be avoided.
- Exponential backoff with jitter is a commonly used strategy for determining retry intervals.
- Different strategies are needed for handling machine-generated requests.
- The article mentions the technology used for animations and the availability of source code for visualization posts.
- Ignoring strategies for handling failed requests can have consequences.
- There are risks of self-inflicted Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Apple Removes Developer Account, Sparks Legal Battle and Losses" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Apple%20Removes%20Developer%20Account%2C%20Sparks%20Legal%20Battle%20and%20Losses&subheading=Friday%2C%20November%2024%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
