---
slug: '/2023/11/28'
---

# 2023-11-28

## [Prettier's $20k Bounty Claimed, Boosting Performance and Compatibility](https://prettier.io/blog/2023/11/27/20k-bounty-was-claimed)

- Prettier, a JavaScript code formatter, has offered a $20,000 bounty for a Rust project passing 95% of its test suite, which was successfully claimed and completed by the Biome project.
- This competition has led to performance and compatibility improvements in Prettier, thanks to bug fixes spurred by the bounty.
- Prettier has received substantial donations from companies and individuals, enabling ongoing development, while Open Collective has facilitated financial transactions and tax handling for the project.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38434613)

- The Prettier team is offering a $20,000 bounty to encourage the development of a new code formatter project in Rust, as they believe there is little competition in this space.
- The article explores the costs freelancers incur, hourly rates for programmers, and factors influencing billing rates.
- The discussion covers the motivations of open-source maintainers and the importance of diverse perspectives in development projects, as well as debates surrounding the effectiveness of Prettier and alternative code formatters.

## [Google Drive users experience data loss as files mysteriously vanish](https://www.theregister.com/2023/11/27/google_drive_files_disappearing/)

- Users of Google Drive are experiencing the troubling issue of files disappearing from the service, causing frustration and panic for those who have lost months' worth of work.
- The problem appears to be linked to synchronization problems, with some users able to partially recover their files by manipulating cached files.
- Google has not yet addressed the issue or offered a solution, raising concerns about the reliability and safety of cloud storage for important data.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38431743)

- Users express frustration and concerns regarding data loss, missing and duplicate files, and reliability issues with Google Drive and other cloud storage platforms.
- Alternative backup options, such as self-hosted platforms and external hard drives, are suggested, with debates on their effectiveness and cost.
- Privacy protection and data security are discussed, with an emphasis on encrypting data locally. Concerns about Microsoft's OneDrive and SharePoint products are also raised.
- Users stress the importance of personal data backup and recommend various tools and platforms. Speculation on the cause of data loss includes syncing program flaws and malware.
- Concerns about Google's support and the need for other storage options are prevalent. Different approaches to data backup, including local servers and automated backup processes, are explored.
- There are debates on the reliability and security of cloud storage services, the risks of relying on a single provider, and the need for personal responsibility in maintaining backups.
- The discussion touches on Google's hiring practices, software quality, and management influence. Ownership rights, liability of cloud providers, and legal remedies for property loss are also discussed.
- The concept of intellectual property and data ownership is explored, highlighting differences in laws and Google's terms of service.
- Overall, the discussion reflects concerns, frustrations, and suggestions related to the reliability, security, and ownership of data on cloud storage platforms like Google Drive.

## [Creating a Feedback Loop with DALLE-3 and GPT4-Vision: Unleashing Wild Results](https://dalle.party/)

- The author discovered a new feedback loop technique using DALLE-3 and GPT4-Vision, inspired by Translation Party.
- By generating an image with DALLE-3 based on a text prompt, converting it back to a text prompt with GPT4-Vision, and repeating the process, fascinating and unexpected outcomes can be achieved.
- To try this technique, users must have their own OpenAI API key, and the author provides some favorite examples of this process.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38432486)

- Users shared their experiences and examples of using AI models like DALLE and GPT for generating images based on text prompts.
- Discussions focused on the capabilities and limitations of these models, as well as suggestions for improvements.
- Topics such as API security, diversity in generated images, and the potential for creativity and fun using AI for image generation were also explored.

## [Live Map of Passenger Trains in the US and Canada](https://trains.fyi/)

- A person created a map to track train locations after facing a delay.
- They decided to share the map with others.
- This map can help others track train locations and potentially avoid delays.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38434574)

- The discussion covers various topics related to train transportation in the US and Canada, including real-time tracking, high-speed rail, freight transportation, limitations of current rail infrastructure, and potential improvements.
- Users discuss the advantages and disadvantages of train travel compared to flying, as well as the potential for reducing carbon emissions through high-speed rail.
- The need for improved rail transit, increased efficiency, and affordability is highlighted throughout the discussion.

## [GitHub Users Express Frustration Over New Search Restrictions, Claim It Undermines Open-Source Principles](https://github.com/orgs/community/discussions/77046)

- GitHub has implemented a new policy that requires users to be logged in to search for code, leading to frustration among users.
- Some users argue that this change is unnecessary and hostile towards open-source principles.
- GitHub justifies the login requirement as a security measure to protect their servers from anonymous overload, but some users believe Microsoft's influence may be a factor.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38432261)

- GitHub now requires users to be logged in to search for code, citing the resource-intensive nature of the new code search feature.
- Some users speculate that this change may be a strategic move to drive registration and increase user numbers.
- Mixed opinions exist regarding the change, with some dismissing complaints as laziness or incompetence, while others raise concerns about potential socioeconomic issues, unauthorized access, security risks, code protection, scraping by AI companies, hosting open-source projects, and Microsoft's acquisition of GitHub. Discussions also include alternative platforms and search methods.

## [Broadcom Layoffs Hit VMware Employees After Acquisition](https://www.businessinsider.com/broadcom-vmware-layoffs-employees-face-job-cuts-acquisition-2023-11)

- Broadcom has finalized its acquisition of VMware, leading to potential job cuts for some VMware employees.
- The exact number of employees affected remains uncertain.
- VMware had already been implementing job cuts prior to the acquisition.
- Broadcom emailed employees whose positions were being eliminated, offering a severance package and a non-working paid notice period.
- Speculation arose among VMware employees about the possibility of certain units being spun out by Broadcom.
- Concerns were raised about potential clashes in company culture and the impact on business deals.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38436419)

- Broadcom's acquisition of VMware has led to layoffs, raising concerns about timing and employee morale.
- The discussion highlights challenges with VMware's vSphere API and the preference for REST and JSON-based cloud APIs.
- Other topics include the use of VMware by VPS hosting providers, the impact of layoffs on retirement age, and the importance of understanding SQL in software engineering.

## [The Relationship Between zlib, gzip, and zip Explained](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/20762094/how-are-zlib-gzip-and-zip-related-what-do-they-have-in-common-and-how-are-they)

- Stack Overflow is a platform where developers and technologists can ask questions and share knowledge.
- The summary includes information about compression algorithms used in zlib, gzip, and zip formats.
- It discusses the pros and cons of using gzip files and includes details about Mark Adler, a notable figure in data compression and file formats.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38432127)

- The post explores the usefulness of different compression formats such as zlib, gzip, zip, Zstandard, and squashfs.
- It discusses the benefits and debates surrounding the concatenation of tar files and the limitations of certain compression methods.
- The decline of Stack Overflow and the potential rise of AI tools in developers' workflows are also mentioned, along with challenges in finding reliable information and the trustworthiness of curated sources like Wikipedia.

## [Fatty Acid in Beef and Dairy Boosts Cancer Fighting Immune Response, Study Finds](https://biologicalsciences.uchicago.edu/news/tva-nutrient-cancer-immunity)

- Scientists at the University of Chicago have discovered that a fatty acid called trans-vaccenic acid (TVA) found in beef, lamb, and dairy products can enhance the ability of immune cells to fight tumors.
- Higher levels of TVA in the blood were associated with improved response to immunotherapy in cancer patients.
- This research suggests that TVA could be used as a nutritional supplement to enhance the effectiveness of cancer treatments, and there may be other nutrients from plants that activate immune cells in a similar way.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38433563)

- The discussions explore various aspects of nutrition and health, such as the effects of red meat, dairy, and cooking methods, as well as the link between certain foods and cancer.
- Different perspectives and viewpoints are presented, emphasizing the complexity and ongoing debate in this field.
- Topics also include the validity of scientific studies, the role of experts in providing health advice, and the significance of considering individual factors and context in research.

## [$10M AI-MO Prize: Develop AI models to win gold in math competition](https://aimoprize.com/)

- XTX Markets is introducing the AI-MO Prize, a $10 million challenge fund to create AI models that can win gold medals at the International Mathematical Olympiad (IMO).
- The grand prize of $5 million will be awarded to the first publicly-shared AI model that achieves the level of a gold medal in an approved competition.
- Progressive prizes will also be given for models that reach specific milestones, and the competition will open to participants in early 2024 to compare AI problem-solving strategies.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38431482)

- The summary addresses the potential of AI to win a gold medal at the International Mathematical Olympiad, showcasing its capabilities in the field of mathematics.
- It explores the advancements and limitations of AI in art and math, shedding light on the potential applications of AI technology.
- The impact of AI on various fields, including math education and cognitive labor, is discussed, highlighting its value and contributions. The closing of math departments in universities and the future of intelligence are also touched upon.

## [Introducing godforsaken.website: A Decentralized Social Network on Mastodon](https://godforsaken.website/@Shrigglepuss/111482466182637440)

- The website godforsaken.website is a decentralized social network built on Mastodon.
- Users can create accounts, login, and search using different options.
- The website offers information about the platform, server statistics, and various features like following profiles, hashtags, favoriting, sharing, and replying to posts. Users can also interact from their accounts on different servers.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38441710)

- Hacker News discussions encompass various subjects such as problems with the Outlook Desktop app, frustrations with Microsoft Teams, and concerns regarding privacy and data protection regulations.
- Users on the platform express dissatisfaction with Microsoft's policies and engage in conversations about the pros and cons of different email providers, prioritizing privacy and security.
- The discussions highlight the importance placed on finding alternative email management options that address users' concerns.

## [Understanding AI Monosemanticity: Unraveling the Complexity of Neural Networks and the Pursuit of Interpretability](https://www.astralcodexten.com/p/god-help-us-lets-try-to-understand)

- Understanding artificial intelligence (AI) is a significant challenge due to the complexity of its neural networks, containing billions of neurons.
- Researchers are making progress in deciphering AI's inner workings, but the concept of superposition, where a few neurons can represent multiple concepts, adds to the difficulties.
- The article explores the need for transparency and safety in AI, discussing interpretability techniques, the potential development of an interpreter-AI, and the concept of feature synergy in convolutional neural networks (CNNs).

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38438261)

- The discussion covers various aspects of artificial intelligence (AI) and its connection to human cognition, including the complexity of the human brain and potential advancements in neurology and machine learning.
- Topics also include the use of group theory in neural networks, different techniques in AI, and the comparison between biological neurons and artificial neural networks.
- The conversation explores the impact of substrate on computation, the anthropomorphization of neural networks, determinism in machines, and the differences between biological brains and artificial neural networks.
- Additionally, the concept of evolution and the challenges in understanding neural networks are discussed, along with the limitations and potential of AI and the training of language models.
- The conversation ultimately underlines the complexities, differences, and potential advancements in AI and human cognition.

## [Unlocking JavaScript Framework Lock-In with Web Components](https://jakelazaroff.com/words/web-components-eliminate-javascript-framework-lock-in/)

- Web components offer benefits in terms of avoiding JavaScript framework lock-in.
- The article showcases the process of using web components alongside popular frameworks like React, Solid, Svelte, and Vue.
- Code examples and additional resources are provided for further exploration of web components.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38434470)

- The passage explores discussions and debates on web development topics like Web Components, React, JSX, and other frameworks.
- It covers the limitations, advantages, and criticisms of these technologies, along with alternative approaches and opinions.
- State management, templating, component creation, and design patterns are among the topics discussed in the conversations.

## [Top 5 Database Shirts: A Fashionable Tribute to Promoting Tech](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~pavlo/blog/2016/07/my-favorite-database-shirts.html)

- The author expresses their enthusiasm for wearing database shirts and ranks their top five favorites, highlighting the significance of using quality materials and designs.
- They recognize the role of shirts in promoting a company's brand and discuss their personal connection to some of the shirts.
- -

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38433083)

- The comment thread covers a range of topics related to t-shirts, such as favorite designs, preferred brands, materials, and styles.
- Controversies surrounding certain t-shirt names and the availability of larger sizes are also discussed.
- Mention is made of tech companies using t-shirts for promotional purposes, and the challenges faced in finding specific brands.

## [Popular Science Magazine Ends Print Edition After 151 Years](https://www.theverge.com/2023/11/27/23978042/popular-science-digital-magazine-discontinued)

- Popular Science magazine, after 151 years of publication, has ceased its print edition and transitioned to an all-digital format.
- The owner of the magazine, Recurrent Ventures, has stated that the organization needs to expand beyond the magazine and prioritize other ventures such as news, commerce, and video content.
- The discontinuation of the magazine has resulted in layoffs of several employees and highlights the difficulties faced by science journalism in today's media industry.

### [Reactions](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38439817)

- Popular Science magazine, after 151 years, has decided to discontinue its print format and focus solely on publishing articles on its website.
- This decision has sparked conversations concerning the decline of print media and the growing preference for online content.
- People have different views on this shift, with some expressing nostalgia for the unique advertisements found in magazines, while others argue that digital formats are more convenient.
- There is skepticism regarding the decline in the quality of popular publications and concerns about the future of physical books.
- While some believe that vinyl records and physical books will still hold value, others predict that these formats will eventually become obsolete.
- The discussions also touch on the potential transformation of libraries and the significance of curated platforms in navigating the abundance of online content.
- Overall, opinions vary, with a mixture of optimism and doubt regarding technological progress, the future of print media, and the potential revival of certain magazines.

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Prettier's $20k Bounty Claimed, Boosting Performance and Compatibility" />
  <meta property="og:type" content="website" />
  <meta property="og:image" content="https://og.cho.sh/api/og/?title=Prettier's%20%2420k%20Bounty%20Claimed%2C%20Boosting%20Performance%20and%20Compatibility&subheading=Tuesday%2C%20November%2028%2C%202023%3A%20Hacker%20News%20Summary" />
</head>
